## Chapter Leadership

Chapter leaders serve as the main point of contact for the local chapter
and are responsible for ensuring that the local chapter fulfills its
requirements, including planning at least two meetings per year.

  - An Active Chapter Leader is responsive to all requests within a
    reasonable amount of time, generally within 5-7 business days.
    Chapter leaders must have their name and contact information clearly
    available on the Chapter wiki page.

<!-- end list -->

  - Preferably, a chapter should have as many organizers as possible.
     Running a successful chapter requires concerted effort all year
    long, and these duties should be split between whoever is willing to
    volunteer to take the load. A single chapter leader has proven to be
    an anti-pattern for successful chapters and high performing chapters
    often have three or more co-organizers that meet regularly to plan.
     In order to promote checks and balances, there are some benefits
    given explicitly to chapters with multiple leaders.  The most
    important of these is that every chapter with at least 2 leaders is
    given access to a minim starting annual budget of $500.  You can
    read more about budgets in [section
    four](Chapter_Handbook/Chapter_4:_Chapter_Administration "wikilink").
  - Chapter Leader (or Coordinator): Every chapter must nominate a
    Chapter Leader, who is the central point of contact for the chapter
    and responsible to the OWASP Board.  We suggest (but do not require)
    that leaders rotate every 24 months to allow for new ideas and to
    spread the workload. Leadership can be in the form a a few people
    who work by consensus, a leader with an advisory board, or, if you
    must, a single leader.   In case of dispute over the leader role,
    your leadership board may rotate over the 24 month term. If there
    are multiple candidates and no rotation agreement, elections should
    be held for a 24 months term (see elections below).
  - Board: Chapters are free to decide on the number of role holders,
    their titles, how they are selected and for how long. In case there
    are multiple candidates for a specific role, and no restructuring,
    rotation or teaming works, elections for the role should be held for
    a 24 months term.

<!-- end list -->

  -   - We recommend that a chapter would have also a board with at
        least 3 members, each one having a specific role. Common roles:
          - Organization: Secretary, PR/Marketing, Web, Membership,
            Finance & Meetings/Conferences
          - Content: Education, Industry, Projects

  - Any long term change in how governance is handled must be decided
    either by consensus or votes.  All paid or honorary members
    affiliated with your chapter must have sufficient notice and
    opportunity to take part in the discussion and decision making
    process.  It is incumbent upon the current leaders or actors urging
    the change to make sure this happens.   Unless otherwise stated,
    OWASP assumes that the leadership and chapter are governed by
    consensus.  Any changes in this structure must be posted on the wiki
    whether it is a simple decision like "We work by consensus" and "We
    vote every 2 years" or a complex governance document like some of
    our chapters have.

<!-- end list -->

  - Your chapter page, must clearly identify who is the current
    leadership for the chapter or on the board of the chapter, including
    their phone numbers and/or email addresses. Additionally, post
    information on how people can get involved with the chapter
    planning, leadership, or decisions. What are your plans for the
    upcoming year? Are you looking for help with something particular?
    When are your elections held?

## Transferring Leadership.

In the course of time, a leader may want to move on and leave his/her
role. While this chapter provides guidelines to the technical process to
follow, we found in the past that the actual challenge is find the new
leader, especially in chapters that lack a board. We strongly suggest
that a chapter leader who wants to stop would try to find a successor
among the active members of the chapter. Such a process has the best
chance of ensuring the continuous success of the chapter.

Please let us know of your wish to leave the job and let us help you in
finding a successor.

When a new leader is to be added to your team or a current leader is
leaving you must fill out the change of leadership form to complete the
activity.  Chapter leadership is an agreement with the OWASP Foundation
to take on responsibilities as well as privileges; records of who is in
what role need to be up to date.   

## Chapter Elections

It is always advisable to avoid elections. Running a chapter is a hard,
volunteer job and sharing the load is always advisable. Since the
chapter leader role structure is flexible, choosing the a defined
 chapter structure (such as a board of leaders who work by consensus)
may help to avoid elections. However, if there is a lack of agreement
between chapter members on structure, roles or any other issues an
election for a role or a poll on any other subject may be required:

  - A poll on a subject will be held if 10% of the chapter members
    request it.
  - Elections for a role will be held if there are multiple candidates
    for a role at the end of the term for the role.
  - Chapters that either choose to hold regular or one off elections as
    well as those that are driven to elections due to disagreement have
    the ability to request to use the Foundation’s Simply Voting or
    Surveymonkey services as their balloting system.

**How should elections be held?**
OWASP does not enforce any procedure for elections and polls. However
all elections must meet the OWASP core value of
“[Openness.](About_The_Open_Web_Application_Security_Project "wikilink")”
 To this end, in the absence of a previously agreed upon process that is
publicly accessible all elections must be announced on the chapter
mailing list and all paid and honorary members must have the opportunity
to vote.

When structuring an election in the absence of an established process,
an agreement on procedure between candidates or suggestion makers is
sufficient. If such an agreement is not reached, the following procedure
should be followed:

  - The subject and options for vote alongside the names of the people
    requiring the vote would be submitted to the OWASP Foundation.
  - The OWASP Foundation will request confirmation by email from the
    people requiring the vote.
  - Once confirmed, the OWASP Foundation will send the ballot to the
    chapter members setting a deadline.
  - One results are in, the OWASP Foundation will notify chapter members
    of the results.

This procedure for election heavily involves the OWASP Foundation as we
feel that if the chapter cannot get to an agreement even as to how to
hold elections, central intervention is required.

## Chapter Bylaws

While there is no requirement for Chapters to have their own bylaws or
recommended template, if you do create bylaws, you should incorporate
the following information as it applies in your country or region:

  -   - The Open Web Application Security Project (OWASP) is a
        not-for-profit worldwide charitable organization focused on
        improving the security of application software. Our mission is
        to make application security visible, so that people and
        organizations can make informed decisions about true application
        security risks. Everyone is free to participate in OWASP and all
        of our materials are available under a free and open software
        license.
      - Reference to the OWASP Foundation Bylaws, the primary governing
        document for the OWASP, as well as this Handbook. Where there is
        conflict between chapter bylaws and the Foundation's bylaws or
        handbook the Foundation’s Bylaws and Handbooks take precedence.
        Should any Handbook conflict with the Foundation’s Bylaws, the
        Bylaws take precedence.

Chapter by-laws that currently exist have been posted in one central
place on the wiki -
<https://www.owasp.org/index.php/Local_Chapter_ByLaws>

If your chapter has by-laws already or adopts by-laws in the future,
please post them to the wiki on the Local Chapter ByLaws page, or submit
them through the [contact us form](http://sl.owasp.org/contactus).

## Legal Entity

While local chapters operate, for the most part, independently from the
OWASP Foundation, they are not stand alone legal entities. Local OWASP
Chapters are essentially small local “arms” or “branches” of the OWASP
Foundation and must abide by any legal and financial duties or
responsibilities imposed on the OWASP Foundation. Furthermore, local
chapters and chapter leaders are governed by the OWASP Foundation
through the Executive Director and the Global OWASP Board.

## Disputes

When there is a problem at the local level, at what point does the
global organization step in? Chapters are encouraged to handle disputes
locally, within their own governance structures. However, what should a
chapter leader (or other community member) do if there appears to be a
violation of OWASP principles or ethics? Or what if someone feels that
the chapter leader him or herself is not following the handbook?

If you feel that a chapter leader is not acting in accordance with the
chapter handbook, please follow the following hierarchy in escalating
your concern:

1.  Bring your concern to the attention of the chapter leader or chapter
    board. If possible, make an attempt to handle the issue locally.
2.  If you are unable to resolve at the local level, please contact the
    Community Manager through the [contact
    us](http://sl.owasp.org/contactus) form.
3.  If the Community Manager is not able to handle your concern or you
    would like to challenge the feedback/decision of the Community
    Manager, the concern can be raised with the Global OWASP Board.
4.  If you feel an [Code of Ethics](About_OWASP "wikilink") violation
    has occurred, you may review the [Whistleblower
    Policy](Governance/Whistleblower_Policy "wikilink") for instructions
    on how to file a complaint.

[Category:Chapter_Handbook](Category:Chapter_Handbook "wikilink")