## Setting Goals

Some of the most successful chapters have clearly defined both their
short term (achievable within 1 year) and long term goals (achievable in
more than 1 year), and set forth a plan to achieve those goals. Goals
may include the number of meetings you want to have in a year, certain
topics you hope to cover in your meetings, an OWASP Project your chapter
members want to contribute to, or even a dollar amount your chapter
hopes to have in their local chapter account.

## Surveys

Surveying chapter members is a good way to learn how to improve or
change your meetings to better meet their needs. While you can collect
information about specific speakers and presentations at the end of each
meeting (see “Collecting Feedback” above); additionally, give chapter
members a chance each year to evaluate the past year and speak about
expectations for the upcoming year. You can hand out paper copies at a
meeting or even email out the survey to your chapter mailing list.

[Sample Survey
(template)](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1aESBLTbGGOcBmZZepf9TQTKSsquPde5e-8CHGMBojIc/edit)

[Sample Survey Results PPT
Presentation](https://docs.google.com/present/edit?id=0AZZ9zE0hx0LNZGczZ3B4YnpfODRjZHZidzhmeA)

## Outreach

Network, network, network\!

As a chapter leader, outreach is a great way to educate people about
OWASP as well as upcoming chapter meetings, lining up speakers, and
soliciting sponsors. Here are some ideas for where to start:

  - Use OWASP chapter mailing lists to alert members of meetings and
    monthly events.
  - Coordinate with other OWASP Chapters in your area - maybe you can
    piggyback off one of their speakers or combine for a social event.
  - Talk to other security groups, developer groups (Linux, Python, PHO,
    Ruby, etc.), professional organizations, local CERTS, and
    hackerspaces in your area (ISSA, ISACA, FBI/Infragard, HTCIA, etc.).
    Cross-promote and/or join meetings, be a guest speaker and host
    guest speakers.
  - Host a booth or ask for a speaker slot at local developer/security
    events. Do a local talk about OWASP Projects that you have been
    involved or are familiar with.
  - Talk to local higher education institutions. Involve the university
    and its computer science students - you may be able to host a
    meeting or speak to a group of students.
  - Hook up with government, industry, and academic contacts in your
    area to relay the invitation and generate some interest.
  - Find out what companies are active in this domain in your area in
    order to raise their interest and support.
  - Consider possible press contacts in your area - invite them to a
    local meeting, event, or send a press release about an upcoming
    speaker.
  - Ask for help. A successful chapter has several leaders (there are no
    limits) so share the fun and the pain\!

## Recruiting List Members

It is extremely important to grow the size of the list. This is the
primary source from which people learn about meetings and the larger the
list, the more successful the meetings. Needless to say, list members
need not be OWASP paying members.

There are three primary methods to add members to the list:
1\. Automatically registering attendees to an event to the list While
this may seem unorthodox at first, when done correctly this is the most
effective way to enlist new members. Since meeting attendees are usually
interested to learn about future meetings, this usually works fine.
Just:

  - Enlist all meeting attendees.
  - Send an email to the meeting attendees summarizing the meetings
  - In this email, alongside the usual thanks and the location of the
    presentations, inform that you enlisted attendees to the list, that
    the list is mostly just for meeting announcements and that anyone is
    free to contact you to be removed.
  - Promptly remove who ever ask for it.
  - Be sure to remind the attendees of the meeting that you will be
    adding them to the mailing list for future meeting announcements.

2\. When you meet people in the security community, mention OWASP.
Since OWASP is (hopefully) something you are proud of doing, it usually
pops up in professional conversations. If they are interested in OWASP,
especially getting involved in at the local level, offer to register the
person to the list to get notifications on future meetings. Also, if you
have OWASP business cards, consider having your chapter mailing list
address printed on it. This will be an easy way to direct people to the
right place.... just give them your card\!

OWASP business cards can be requested and charged to your chapter,
provided that the chapter has the necessary funds available, through the
[OWASP Merchandise Request
Form](https://spreadsheets.google.com/a/owasp.org/spreadsheet/viewform?formkey=dF85bGtvdWdrd2JjYldNZ1gxSkJxaEE6MQ).

3\. Meeting invites
Even if initially sent through the list itself, meeting invites are
often forwarded. Add to the invite itself, information on subscribing to
the mailing list.

## Promotional Materials

Consider putting together a flyer about your Chapter with upcoming
speakers, topics, and events, or summarizing your local sponsorship
opportunities (more on “Raising Funds” below).

Download a zip file of the OWASP Logo in Illustrator and EPS format:
<http://www.owasp.org/images/2/28/OWASP_Logo.zip>

## Raising Funds

There are a number of different ways in which to raise money for your
chapter.

**Paid Individual Memberships** - encourage the people who participate
in your local chapter and attend your meetings to become a paid OWASP
member.

  - Individual supporters pay $50 per year for their membership and the
    fee is split 60/40 with the Foundation (40% goes to the local
    chapter or project account designated by the member at the time of
    joining).
  - All paid memberships are processed through RegOnline -
    <http://www.regonline.com/owasp_membership>
  - Some regions (developing countries) of the world may qualify for a
    discounted membership of $20. If you are unsure of whether this
    applies to your chapter or would like to request a discount code,
    please submit your request through <http://sl.owasp.org/contactus>.

In the past, chapters have used (paid) membership drives to promote
OWASP and raise money for their chapter. One approach is to enter all
new members (or renewing members) in a raffle for prizes to be selected
at your next meeting.

**Donations**
Donations from 3rd parties can be accepted via paypal. These funds are
transferred to OWASP Foundation and then chapter leaders can submit
receipts for reimbursement from their chapter’s account. For more
information on reimbursement and your chapter account, see the section
on [Handling
Money](Chapter_Handbook/Chapter_4:_Chapter_Administration#Handling_Money "wikilink").

**Chapter Sponsors – Local and Global**
In order to grow your chapter, it is usually necessary to obtain
sponsorship to cover chapter operations. This can come from local
businesses or larger companies.

Local chapters get their funding primarily from local sponsorships. Any
time you hold an event or conference you can ask companies to sponsor
your event. Most of this money is spent on organizing the event
including venue, food etc. However, whatever money is left can be used
later for other expenses. Donations received from sponsors are shared
between the local chapters and the OWASP Foundation.

There are three different sponsorship options:
1\. **Single Meeting Supporter** - Organizations that wish to support
OWASP local chapter with donation to enable OWASP Foundation to continue
the mission.

  - Benefits include being recognized as a local supporter by posting
    the company logo on the OWASP Chapter website, and having a table at
    local chapter meeting to promote application security
    products/services etc.
  - The dollar amount for this is set by each local chapter.

2\. **Local Chapter Supporter** - Organizations that are not yet
interested in becoming full Organizational Supporters but who have a
desire to direct their support in a more regional manner may prefer to
become a Chapter Supporter.

  - Benefits include being recognized as a local supporter by posting
    the company logo on the OWASP Chapter website, and having (1)
    supporting member vote in elections and on issues that shape the
    direction of the community.
  - Suggested dollar amounts are $500 (Silver), $1000 (Gold), and $2000
    (Platinum) per year, split 10/90 with the Foundation - 90% of the
    funds going directly to the local chapter.

3\. **Organizational Supporter (Global)**- Organizations that wish to
support OWASP with a 100% tax deductible donation to enable OWASP
Foundation to continue the mission.

  - Benefits include an opportunity to post a rotating banner ad on the
    OWASP home page for 30 days at no additional cost, being recognized
    as a supporter by posting the company logo on the OWASP Website,
    being listed as a sponsor in the OWASP newsletter that goes to over
    10,000 individuals around the world on owasp mailing lists.
  - Organizational Supporters have (1) supporting member vote in
    elections and on issues that shape the direction of the community.
  - $5000 per year, split 60/40 with the Foundation - 40% going to the
    local chapter designated at the time of payment.

More details on the different levels of sponsorship can be found at:
<https://www.owasp.org/index.php/Membership>

## Spawning Other Chapters

Some activities such as conferences, media relation and involvement with
legislation and regulatory bodies are nationwide by nature. Such
activities should be handled collectively by all chapters in the country
and should be led by one of the chapter leaders, either by mutual
agreement, election, or if all else fails, appointed by the [Community
Manager](https://www.owasp.org/index.php/About_The_Open_Web_Application_Security_Project#Employees_and_Contractors_of_the_OWASP_Foundation).

[Category:Chapter_Handbook](Category:Chapter_Handbook "wikilink")