## Meeting Formula

There are a variety of meeting formulas that have been used by existing
local chapters; the most traditional of which is an evening speaker
meeting. For this type of meeting, the chapter leader will organize one
or more speakers to present on one or more topics in a lecture or
question & answer format. Needless to say, chapters have adapted this
formula in many ways to suit their members or geographic area. Meetings
have been organized over breakfast, lunch, or dinner as well as at a bar
having a conversation over drinks. Some chapters serve food during the
meeting or after the meeting on site, others will invite meeting
attendees to a cafe, bar, or restaurant nearby for food and drinks after
the meeting. Meetings have been organized as social or networking
events, roundtables, panel discussions, or even as a remote
presentation.

Chapter leaders are encouraged to try a variety of formats to determine
what will be the most successful for their audience and area. Also, it
may work best to have a variety of formats throughout the year depending
on the speaker and meeting space availability.

Virtual meetings may not be ideal to encourage networking and community
building within your local chapter, but they are certainly a good
alternative when the chapter is not able to find a venue or having
trouble bringing in a speaker. OWASP has a GotoMeeting account already
available for chapter leaders (paid by the Foundation and provided for
free for the chapters). If you would like to set up a meeting or obtain
the GotoMeeting login credentials, [contact
us](http://sl.owasp.org/contactus).

## Before - Planning the Meeting

In order of importance,\* these are the key pieces to holding a chapter
meeting:

1.  Great speakers / topics
2.  Venue
3.  Date
4.  Promotion

<!-- end list -->

  - While the order of importance has been debated by chapter leaders,
    the general consensus appears above. Additional pieces (discussed
    more below) that some chapter leaders have said are “key” in their
    regions: sponsors and attendees. The list above is meant to be a
    starting place and a list of essential items for planning your
    meeting; it is assumed that once you have these items in place
    people will attend the meeting and sponsorship will follow
    thereafter.

### Getting a Speaker

OWASP chapters are encouraged to get local speakers. Your chapter may
also use international speakers, but you will quickly need funds to
cover travel costs if the speakers cannot pay for the travel themselves.

One technique for bringing in international speakers is to coordinate
your meeting with another event that the speaker may be attending or
speaking at nearby. The intended speaker may be willing to arrive early
or extend their trip by a day or two to speak at your local meeting.

Also, the OWASP Speakers Project is available to help local chapters or
application security conferences to find OWASP related speakers.
<https://www.owasp.org/index.php/Category:OWASP_Speakers_Project>

If you have found an international speaker who is not able to pay for
the travel themselves, and your chapter does not have the funds to cover
the travel costs, you may be able to apply for “OWASP on the Move” funds
(outlined below).

### OWASP on the Move

In order to better support local chapter meetings and (web application)
security events, the Global Chapters Committee started a travel-support
program for OWASP presenters.

The [OWASP on the Move](OWASP_on_the_Move "wikilink") program allows
local chapters to have OWASP presenters on site; it is not for speakers
to attend OWASP conferences. This program allows 3 parties to find each
other:

  - Local chapters events that want to attract an OWASP speaker
  - OWASP speakers to entertain OWASP presentations and that want to see
    the world
  - OWASP sponsors that want to support spreading the OWASP message

To find available speakers in your area, see the [OWASP Speakers
Project](:Category:OWASP_Speakers_Project "wikilink")

**Application Process:**
The way it works is really easy.

  - Upfront the chapter leader submits an OotM request (event details,
    who to cover, etc...) via <http://sl.owasp.org/contactus>
  - The request will be reviewed by the [Global Chapter
    Committee](Global_Chapter_Committee "wikilink"). If the request is
    within the rules (see below), it will be rapidly approved.
  - The speaker, who made the travel/lodging expenses, submits a
    reimbursement request with receipts after the presentation is
    performed.
  - The reimbursement is approved and processed.

That's it\!

[Reimbursement Request
Form](https://owasporg.atlassian.net/servicedesk/customer/portals)

**OWASP on the Move Rules:**
The following rules apply for the OotM project:

  - Primary funding would be deducted from the local chapter budget.
      - A chapter without sufficient funds for a speaker may request the
        Global Chapter Committee vote to approve the use of OWASP funds.
  - The normal maximum amount per speaker is $500 USD
  - Only in special circumstances the maximum amount per speaker can be
    raised to a maximum of $1000 USD
  - There is a proposed limit of $2,000 USD on the amount of money
    provided to any individual per year (\*see 'further funding' below)
  - There is a proposed limit of $2,000 USD on the amount of money
    provided to any chapter per year(\*see 'further funding' below)

A chapter can use the sponsorship 4 times a year, with a maximum of 2
speakers sponsored by OotM for one single event.

  - Further funding: for active chapters or speakers who have reach the
    proposed financial limits, further funding is possible but will
    depend on available budget, since priority would be given to
    chapters below these thresholds

OWASP on the Move funds are not to be used by speakers to attend OWASP
conferences. If assistance is needed to attend a conference, contact the
conference chair.

The payments are tracked online
[OWASP_on_the_Move_-_Payments](OWASP_on_the_Move_-_Payments "wikilink")

### Speaker Agreement

Many chapters do not have every speaker sign the OWASP \[Speaker
Agreement\] as part of their agreement or confirmation for the event.
However, if you think OWASP values and principles may be an issue or are
concerned that the speaker does not understand the terms of the
arrangement, you may consider sending them this speaker agreement:
<https://www.owasp.org/index.php/Speaker_Agreement>

### Meeting Venue

There are an infinite number of possibilities for a meeting location -
local college, business, library, or even a restaurant or pub. Plan as
far in advance as possible - good meeting spaces are often available at
little or no cost (local colleges and universities are often willing to
give meeting space for free), but they fill up quickly.

Also, it is important to consider accessibility when looking at
locations: Where will the attendees park? What is the average travel
time for attendees? Is there a security checkpoint? What happens if
attendees have not pre-registered, can they still attend? Can you serve
food at this location?

While having a permanent or stable meeting location for your chapter
meetings may be convenient for planning, it is also important to
consider any conflict of interest (or appearance of conflict of
interest) your meeting venue may convey. For example: vendor neutrality
is one of the core values of OWASP, but this doesn’t necessarily mean
that a vendor cannot host a local chapter meeting. As long as the
meeting is free and open and doesn’t violate other OWASP principals, a
vendor’s office space may be a great location to hold a meeting. That
being said, holding every meeting at this vendor’s office to the
exclusion of other available and willing venues, may give an appearance
of impropriety.

### Setting a Date and Time

Most OWASP meetings are currently held during the week (Monday through
Friday). Additionally, while meetings have traditionally been held in
the evening, an increasing number of local chapters have found success
in hosting breakfast (early morning) or lunch events.

When setting your meeting date and time, be sure to consider:

  - Will your anticipated venue will be available?
  - Will you be able to find a speaker for this date and time (many
    chapters will book the speaker first and then choose a date and time
    that works for him or her)?
  - Have you allowed sufficient travel time for attendees that are
    coming from work?
  - Are there any local or regional events or holidays that will
    conflict?

### Posting Meeting Info on the Wiki

General information about what should be on a chapter’s wiki page can be
found under “administration” below. As soon as you know the time, date,
and location of your meeting, be sure to post it to your chapter’s wiki
page. Additionally, most chapters post information about the upcoming
meeting such as: meeting agenda, speaker background, summary of the
topic(s) to be covered by the speaker/meeting.

This is one possible "template" to use on your chapter wiki page for
listing meeting details:

  - WHEN
    Fill in date and timeframe

  - WHERE
    Fill in meeting place

  - AGENDA

<!-- end list -->

  - 18h00 - 18h30: Networking / Food, Drinks
  - 18h30 - 19h00: Fill in
  - 19h00 - 19h30: Fill in
  - Etc.

You can copy and paste the wiki code for this “template” here:
<https://www.owasp.org/index.php/Sample_Chapter_Page>

### Catering

Many chapters provide food or refreshments before, during, or after
their meeting. This is not a necessity for a chapter meeting, but
something extra you might consider if you have the funds in your chapter
account or are able to get a sponsor to cover costs (or provide food
directly). It is also possible for meeting attendees to split the cost
if they want food at the meeting; however, no one can be excluded from a
meeting based on their ability or willingness to pay for food. Meetings
must remain free and open.

If you need to decide on the amount of food ahead of time, line up the
refreshment logistics based on RSVP'd attendees.

### Sponsors & Affiliates

In order to organize events, an OWASP chapter often needs to find
sponsors. These sponsors may provide meeting facilities, refreshments,
etc. While sponsorship is good, it is important to avoid the
commercialization pitfalls that may accompany it.

The following is specifically **prohibited**:

  - Providing sponsors with a list of people registering for or
    attending any event. This might even be illegal in certain countries
    due to privacy laws. The sponsor can collect leads in itself, for
    example by offering a prize for people providing contact details.
  - Providing the sponsor with a commercial or product centric
    presentation slot.

So what can sponsors get?\*

  - Many thanks, and hopefully a very good feeling of helping the
    community.
  - A table top style mini booth where they can put up a "roll up"
    poster or two and hand out your brochures and freebies. This might
    not be possible in certain meeting facilities.
  - Logo on the local chapter or event page.

<!-- end list -->

  - All of the OWASP sponsorship options are detailed on the OWASP
    Membership page:

<https://www.owasp.org/index.php/Membership>

At the local level there are options for both Local Chapter Supporters
(90/10 split with the Foundation, 90% directly supporting the local
chapter) as well as Single Meeting Supporters.

### Meeting Promotion

Here are some tips that chapter leaders can use to promote their meeting
(and increase meeting attendance):

  - At a minimum, the date, time, location, speaker, and topic should be
    listed on your chapter’s wiki page and an email announcement sent
    out to your chapter’s mailing list.
  - When sending out direct meeting invitations, use google calendar
    invites through your @owasp.org email account. General email assumes
    that people will read it in a timely manner and will remember to
    place it onto their calendar. By using the google calendar
    invitations, this task is done for them.
  - Make sure that your upcoming meeting is broadcast through a variety
    of channels. In addition to posting the meeting to your chapter’s
    wiki page and mailing list, consider blogging or
    [tweeting](http://twitter.com/) about it, as well as posting it on
    social networking sites such as
    [LinkedIn](http://www.linkedin.com/),
    [Facebook](http://www.facebook.com/),
    [Meetup](http://www.meetup.com/), and
    [myowasp](http://myowasp.ning.com/).
  - Post your event to sites such as [Yahoo
    Events](http://www.google.com/url?q=http%3A%2F%2Fevents.yahoo.com%2F&sa=D&sntz=1&usg=AFQjCNFoOQ3LHRany2PkDdWPvYMZwbY1Eg)
    and partner with other user groups to cross-market (i.e. ISSA, .Net
    SIG, Java SIG, SIM, DAMA).
  - Acknowledge the fact that even if people cannot physically attend,
    they may be able to participate remotely. The OWASP Foundation has
    an account with <http://www.gotomeeting.com> that is free for
    chapters to use. Account requests or details can be requested can be
    requested through: <http://sl.owasp.org/contactus>.
  - Many people are tired and hungry, especially after a long day at
    work. While you cannot cure tiredness, you can at least try to feed
    your attendees. Pizza is cheap and it is relatively easy to find a
    sponsor.
  - Make sure the topics you choose are broadly applicable and not just
    targeted at one group (i.e. penetration testers, software
    developers). Part of making web application security visible
    requires you to choose (or solicit) speakers that appeal to IT
    executives, enterprise architects, business analysis, legal and
    compliance, etc. If a particular group does happen to be the “target
    audience” at a meeting, try to change things up for your next
    meeting.

### OWASP Calendar

Most new chapter leaders are given edit privileges for the OWASP
calendar at the time their chapter is created, but if you taking over
leadership or have been the leader of a chapter for a while, you may not
have permission. Calendar edit privileges can be requested through
<http://sl.owasp.org/contactus>.

How do I add my chapter’s local events to the OWASP calendar on the wiki
home page?

1.  Log into your owasp email account (via google apps/gmail)
2.  Open another tab and go to the OWASP wiki home page.
    \[www.owasp.org\]
3.  Click the button on the bottom of the event calendar box that says
    "+ google calendar". This will integrate the OWASP event calendar
    with your owasp gmail account.
4.  Add the local event to your OWASP account google calendar (as you
    would if adding it for your personal calendar or setting up a
    meeting invite)
5.  In the "calendar" drop down menu there are likely 2 (or more
    options) - select "OWASP Event Calendar" and save. This should
    populate the event calendar on the OWASP home page. Note that your
    personal event calendar is likely in your home time zone, but the
    OWASP event calendar is in GMT. Google should do the proper time
    conversion for you.

### RSVPs

Posting your meeting on the chapter’s wiki page and emailing an
announcement to the chapter’s mailing list are the prime methods of
letting people know about OWASP meetings. Some other useful methods are:

  - Ask your speakers to send invites to their circle
  - Ask people on the list to forward to people in their organization.
  - Use your own personal contacts. Since OWASP is not a commercial
    organization, this would be usually acceptable by your business
    contacts. Again, this might actually help you keep in touch with
    them.

Meeting invitations/announcements should contain a request to forward it
to other interested parties.

You might also want to use event invites instead of e-mail messages.
These services provide different advantages such as integration with the
attendee calendar and RSVP management, but on the other hand might seem
more commercial and obtrusive.

You can send event invites using the following tools:

  - RegOnline - people can register for your meeting (and you can send
    invites and follow up emails) using OWASP’s RegOnline account. If
    you do not have access and would like to use this for your next
    chapter meeting, please request an account through
    <http://sl.owasp.org/contactus>
  - Direct calendar invites: one can do that using a dedicated Google
    calendar account.
  - The tool most used by OWASP chapters is:
    [Eventbrite](http://www.eventbrite.com/), which is free for
    non-profits.
  - Others use: [Meetup](http://www.meetup.com/), which while not free
    is priced very low.
  - Yet others use a meeting [Doodle](http://www.doodle.com/).
  - <http://myowasp.ning.com/>
  - You can always just use Excel to track the individuals that reply to
    your email invitations.

To extract the list of mailing list members you can use the mailman
roster page available at:
<https://lists.owasp.org/mailman/roster/owasp-><your-list>.

Note\! Whatever tool you use, personally responding to each person who
has RSVPed greatly increase the rate of people who actually attend. Just
write back "Great\! see you in the meeting" or whatever fits your local
culture and is short.

### OWASP Merchandise

The OWASP Foundation can provide you with OWASP books, shirts, pens,
lanyards, flyers, or other materials that you might need to jump-start
your next meeting. The cost of these items will be billed to your local
chapter. If you would like OWASP Merchandise for your meeting or local
event, but do not have the funds to cover it, you request that the costs
be covered by the Global Chapters Committee. Requests can be submitted
through the [OWASP Merchandise Request
Form](https://spreadsheets.google.com/a/owasp.org/spreadsheet/viewform?formkey=dF85bGtvdWdrd2JjYldNZ1gxSkJxaEE6MQ).

[Rocksports](http://store.rocksports.net/merchant2/merchant.mvc?Screen=OWASP&Store_Code=2008&Category_Code=OWASP)
has also set up an OWASP Storefront to show items they have available
and many OWASP books have been made available through
[Lulu](http://stores.lulu.com/owasp).

### PPT Template

You may want to send your speakers a PowerPoint template to use for
their presentations. Here are some options:

  - <https://www.owasp.org/images/c/c3/OWASP_Presentation_template.ppt>
  - [OWASP Impress
    Template](https://www.owasp.org/images/9/9a/OWASP_Presentation_template.odp)
    (Open/Libre Office)

### Screening Presentations

In order to ensure that presentations remain vendor neutral and don’t
turn into platforms for a sales pitch, it is recommended that you screen
the presentations before the meeting.

This may also be a good time to remind your speaker about the terms of
the Speaker Agreement (or make sure they understand what is expected of
them).

### Remote Participation

The OWASP Foundation has an account with <http://www.gotomeeting.com>
that is free for chapters to use. Account requests can be requested
through the <http://sl.owasp.org/contactus> and details on using
GoToMeeting can be found here:
<https://www.owasp.org/index.php/Chapter_Leader_Handbook/GoToMeeting>.
As soon as you have scheduled the meeting date and time, the remote
participation can also be scheduled so you can include details on your
chapter’s wiki page or in your emails.

### Speaker Gifts

Although it is not necessary, giving speakers a small token of
appreciation such as an OWASP t-shirt, mug, or pen set is encouraged.

### Communication

The following is a recommended communication schedule for notifying
members about an upcoming meeting:

  - Three weeks before the meeting - send meeting invitations and make
    sure meeting information has been posted to your chapter’s wiki
    page.
  - One week before the meeting - send reminders about the meeting to
    your mailing list and through other social media (LinkedIn,
    Facebook, Twitter, etc.)
  - Upon registration and again one day before the meeting - send
    confirmation to people that have signed up to attend the meeting.

## During the Meeting

### Meeting Set-Up

Arrive early\! Ensure that everything for the meeting space is set up
before the first attendees will be arriving. Here are a few things you
may need to set up or prepare:

  - Registration & badges (if any)
  - OWASP merchandise and signs including banner
  - Remote participation
  - Sponsor booths/tables
  - Catering - Will food or beverages be served before, during, or after
    your event? Where will the food be located? Who is providing the
    food? Will someone need to meet the delivery person at the front
    door of the building?
  - Equipment - projector, sound system, and any special items that may
    have been requested by the speaker(s)

### Video Recording

If you have the equipment, you may want to consider recording a video of
your meeting and posting for members who were not able to attend the
meeting. This is also a nice resource for chapter leaders or event
organizers to use in the future to screen a speaker or learn about
his/her style.

The OWASP Speaker Agreement includes authorization for the speaker’s
presentation to be recorded and posted. If you plan to record the
meeting, you should make sure the speaker is aware and has agreed to the
reproduction of his/her presentation.

### Time Management

Spread tasks across many individuals in order to ensure that your
meeting runs smoothly and all of the tasks before, during, and after the
meeting are handled in a timely fashion. There are usually people that
attend the meetings who are willing to want to help the chapter be
successful, but are not able to commit to a chapter leadership role -
that doesn’t mean they aren’t willing to help out on a
meeting-by-meeting basis.

### Meeting Content

  - Job announcements:

Some chapters encourage recruiters or other individuals who are hiring
in their area to come for their meeting and make the job announcement in
person. At the beginning of the meeting they ask anyone who is hiring to
stand up and introduce themselves and who they are looking for. Then at
a break or after the meeting, attendees can get in touch with them. This
encourages recruiters/employers to invest a small amount of time in your
chapter (attending the meeting) and also gives both the person hiring
and the people looking for jobs the benefit of face-to-face contact.

  - Present an OWASP Update:

Always cover the OWASP mission and goals at each meeting to reinforce it
to the attendees of why and what the purpose of the chapter is. Explain
the web application security problem in a general way to attract a large
crowd and to educate the new members and guests.

Additionally, if you or any of your chapter members have recently
attended an OWASP conference or other event, this is a good time for a
short (5-10 minutes) presentation about the event.

  - One or more speakers - if you have a general time frame for the
    speaker(s), make sure to let them know. Also, if you will be having
    more than one speaker, consider whether you will have a short break
    between them for attendees to stretch their legs and get
    refreshments, or whether you will want the change-over time to be
    quick (and attendees remain in their seats).

### Collecting CPE Forms

Send out CPE credits to attendees that requested them or explain to them
that ISC2 (as a example) is a self certify -- if organizations such as
those want to designate someone to collect and validate they are welcome
to do so, but that is not a responsibility of OWASP Chapter Leaders.

### Collecting Feedback

Collect feedback on the speaker from attendees:
\*There are a number of sites available that have feedback templates or
allow you to build your own survey: formsite.com, surveymonkey.com,
zoomerang.com, Google form, etc.

  - A speaker feedback form developed by the NYC/NJ Metro Chapter is
    also available for you to use. The NYC/NJ Metro Chapter distributes
    copies to meeting attendees and asks them to complete them and hand
    them back in at the end of the meeting. Then the chapter leader (or
    another person willing to keep track of feedback) quickly adds the
    totals up to get an idea of which speakers they would like to ask
    back again to present.

<!-- end list -->

  - This is also a good time to capture potential topics or speakers for
    upcoming chapter meetings. What would meeting attendees like to
    learn about? Is anyone at the meeting willing to give a presentation
    in the future?

### Networking/Social Events

There are a variety of ways to incorporate networking or social
interactions into your meeting format. While some chapters designate
specific meetings for networking and socializing (no speaker, just meet
at a local restaurant or pub), it is more common to allow time for
socializing after the meeting. Some meeting venues will be able to host
this, but more than likely you will want to relocate to a restaurant or
bar nearby. Consider asking the speaker(s) to join you so that guests
can have an opportunity for follow up conversations. This time also
fosters building a local OWASP community where the guests get to know
each other and what is going on in the local appsec community.

## After the Meeting

Review event, lessons learned, what can be improved with the other
chapter leaders or board members. Go over any feedback collected at the
meeting.

### Meeting Minutes (and Photos)

Post meeting minutes to document what was covered at the meeting,
including any announcements or decisions that were made. Pictures from
the meeting are also encouraged.

### Posting Presentations and Recordings

In addition to any meeting minutes and photos, try to collect the
presentation from the speaker to post on the chapter’s wiki page.

If you took a video recording of the meeting, you should post that as
well. [Vimeo](http://www.vimeo.com/) is commonly used to host the
uploaded video, which can then be linked to your chapter page.

### Follow-up Communication

Once you post meeting materials such as minutes, pictures, presentation,
or video to your chapter wiki page, send a follow up email to meeting
guests thanking them for attending, letting them know about the next
meeting (if you have the information), and directing them to the
material on your wiki page.

If you collected any new email addresses, this will also be a
confirmation that you have added their name to the mailing list.

### Certificate of Attendance

It is not standard practice for OWASP to issue Certificates of
Attendance for Chapter Meetings. Your chapter nominating someone hold
onto a meeting sign-in sheet after each meeting. Meeting attendees are
still responsible for submitting their own CPEs, but then the Chapter
Leader (or whoever is keeping track of the sign-in sheets) can go back
and audit against the chapter’s sign-in sheet if (ISC)2 or another
organization audits them.

[Category:Chapter_Handbook](Category:Chapter_Handbook "wikilink")