## About OWASP

The Open Web Application Security Project (OWASP) is a 501c3
not-for-profit worldwide charitable organization focused on improving
the security of application software. Our mission is to make application
security visible, so that people and organizations can make informed
decisions about true application security risks. Everyone is free to
participate in OWASP and all of our materials are available under a free
and open software license.

## The Purpose of OWASP Chapters

OWASP Chapters exist to raise awareness of the OWASP mission, making
application security visible, at the local level. The OWASP Foundation
encourages anyone with an interest in furthering the OWASP mission at
the local level to either get involved in their local OWASP chapter, or
if one doesnâ€™t exist, start a new OWASP chapter. Local chapter outreach
is one of the most significant ways that individuals learn about the
organization and become connected to the OWASP community. Therefore,
enabling local chapter leaders and volunteers to not only hold meetings,
but also contribute to projects, organize training and events, and find
new ways to evangelize about application security in their city or
region becomes a key to the success and growth of the much larger global
organization.

## The Purpose of the Chapter Handbook

The purpose of the OWASP Chapter Handbook is to provide chapter leaders
with a central place to find information about starting a chapter,
organizing a chapter meeting, handling their chapter finances, and many
other topics that come up in the course of running a chapter. While
there are a few hard and fast rules that chapter leaders must follow,
this handbook is primarily composed of suggestions and best practices
that have worked for successful chapter leaders. That said, what works
for some chapters may not work for others, and this handbook should not
limit the scope of possibilities for running a strong and thriving
chapter.

## Contact Us: Comments, Suggestions, & Questions

  - Comments, suggestions, and questions on the handbook or other
    chapter issues can be submitted to: <http://sl.owasp.org/contactus>.

[Category:Chapter Handbook](Category:Chapter_Handbook "wikilink")