Getting started:

This section outlines the most basic rules for chapter leaders, or
stated differently, these are the bottom-line rules required of chapter
leaders. Chapters that are in compliance with these rules shall be
considered Active Chapters. Each of these will be elaborated on later in
the handbook.

## Organize free and open meetings

Chapter meetings must be free and open to anyone for everyone to attend,
regardless of whether the attendee is a paid member. All chapter run
channels of communication must be free and open either as a matter of
course as with social media like Twitter, Facebook, and MeetUp or
 through archives as with discussion platforms like Slack, Mailing
Lists and Google Groups.

## Hold a minimum of 4 chapter meetings or events each year

There are a variety of meeting “formats” or events that may be used to
fulfill this requirement.  Most chapters host a series of in-person
meetings with 1-3 talks about security and time to network. Successful
chapters usually supplement these types of meetings with specialty
events like virtual meetings, social hours, hackathons, study groups,
and contests like capture the flag.  Chapters that represent an entire
state, region, or country usually host a smaller number of larger events
in various locations throughout their geographic range. Possibilities
for meeting formats and events are are nearly limitless.

## Give official meeting notice through the wiki, chapter mailing list, and OWASP Calendar

Chapter meetings must be posted on the Chapter’s page on the  OWASP wiki
and a meeting announcement must be sent out to the OWASP mailing list
\[insert discourse pg\]) to notify the OWASP community of each upcoming
meeting. Also, the meeting must be listed on the OWASP Global Events
Calendar. All chapter social media accounts must be linked on the wiki
page. If you are using MeetUp chapter leaders should consider joining
the Foundation’s MeetUp pro account to take advantage of the ability to
simply update the MeetUp page and have your information mirrored on the
OWASP Calendar and your wiki page (Available in late 2017).   

## Abide by OWASP principles and the code of ethics

The OWASP [Core Purpose](About_OWASP "wikilink"),
[Values](About_OWASP "wikilink"), [Principles](About_OWASP "wikilink"),
and [Code of Ethics](About_OWASP "wikilink") are posted on the [About
OWASP](About_OWASP "wikilink") wiki page.

Breaches of the Code of Ethics may result in the foundation taking
disciplinary action, including replacing chapter leadership or revoking
membership.

## Protect the privacy of the chapter’s local contacts

The privacy of chapter members and meeting attendees must be protected
at all times. You should not disclose names, email addresses, or other
identifying information about OWASP members or meeting attendees. Only
aggregate statistics can be referenced. Sponsors should not have access
to member lists; however, they may ask attendees to share contact
information voluntarily, for example via submitting business cards
voluntarily for a raffle.

## Maintain vendor neutrality (act independently)

In order to preserve OWASP’s non-profit status and open, non-commercial
principles it is important that no commercially-oriented “sales pitch”
talks are given at OWASP events, be they chapter meetings or
conferences. Such talks are not only against OWASP principles, they also
blur the line between OWASP and commercial entities, thus diluting the
OWASP brand name and agnostic status globally.

To avoid sales pitches please adhere to the following guidelines:

  - Limit discussion of meeting sponsors to 5 minutes at either the
    beginning or end of each chapter meeting.
  - Limit branded slides to the first slide
  - You may allow a small information booth in the room for the meeting,
    but it should not be placed at the sign in table or anywhere else
    the attendees must pass through to get to the meeting.  At the same
    time, it should not be so out of the way as to be useless.

Anybody that observes chapter leaders that are not following these basic
rules is urged to report it to us.

## Spend any chapter funds in accordance with the OWASP goals, code of ethics, and principles

Chapter funds should be used for your chapter and must be spent in line
with the OWASP Foundation goals, principles, and code of ethics.
Accordingly, chapter finances should be handled in a transparent manner.
OWASP defines transparency as:

  - Keeping a public record of all requests for funding, who proposed
    the request, relevant discussions, votes around funding, and request
    approval/denial in a publically accessible location.  We suggest on
    your wiki page.
  - If a request for funding has been approved for one chapter or
    project, then it can be considered an acceptable expense for all
    chapters or projects which have funds to cover the expense in full.

For more rules regarding  handling chapter funds, see [section 4.7 on
Handling
Money](Chapter_Handbook/Chapter_4:_Chapter_Administration "wikilink").

## Chapter Oversight

OWASP Chapters and Chapter Leaders are overseen on an operational basis
by the Foundation Staff and, ultimately, the Global OWASP Board. Overall
activities must comply with bylaws, policies and handbooks, and code of
ethics. If the Foundation Staff or Global OWASP Board determines that an
OWASP Chapter Leader has not complied with these rules, their status as
an OWASP Chapter Leader may be revoked. Additionally, OWASP
administrative access (including the leader’s owasp.org email address)
may be immediately revoked.

## Chapter leader Perks

We know that being a Chapter Leader is a lot of work--even when your
chapter has multiple leaders.  As thanks for your contribution OWASP
offers the following perks for every leader who has served for 6 months
and hosted at least one event:

  - All chapter leaders can opt-in to [Honorary
    Membership](2016_Honorary_Membership "wikilink")
  - All Chapter are provided with three passes for use by their leaders
    who have fulfilled the above requirements
  - At each Global AppSec Training event there will be 2 seats in each
    training event for leaders to have on a first come-first served
    basis.
  - Any leader who attends the in person Leader meetings can receive a
    special leader’s only shirt (first come-first served, limited
    quantities)

Chapters are not mini organizations, instead they are akin to branches.
 While you can develop your chapter to meet the needs of your audience
and therefore have great freedom, your chapter is not an independent
legal entity. Chapters cannot sign contracts, hold independant
insurance, or hold funds independently of the foundation. Chapters must
abide by the code of conduct, foundation bylaws, the Core Purpose, Core
Values, and the Chapter Leader handbook.  If any of these are
contradictory please abide by the document preceding it in the above
list.  If you are confused you can contact the Community Manager through
email, slack, or the contact us page.

[Category:Chapter Handbook](Category:Chapter_Handbook "wikilink")