## Translation

While knowledge of English is extremely helpful in communicating with
the OWASP community around the world, it is certainly not necessary. To
support the spread of the OWASP mission regardless of a person’s
language, many chapters have worked as a team on translating OWASP
Projects, Documentation, or even this Handbook.

## Localization

Understanding local culture and habits, and considering them when
planning meetings can make a big difference in meeting attendance and
the success of your chapter. For example, in some cultures it is not
popular or even rude to discuss business over lunch. Thus, an OWASP
meeting over lunch would not work very well. On the other hand, some
areas have had great success with planning meetings during the lunch
hour because it doesn’t cut into people’s “family” time in the evening.
Talk to others in your city or region to find out what would work best
for them and don’t be constrained by what chapters in other regions are
doing.

## Adjusted Memberships Fees

Some regions (developing countries) of the world may qualify for a
discounted membership of $20. If you are unsure of whether this applies
to your chapter or would like to request a discount code, please submit
your request through the [contact us
form](http://sl.owasp.org/contactus).

## Material distribution

Some countries or regions may have trouble accessing OWASP tools such as
google docs, the OWASP wiki site, or downloadable tools. If these access
issues prevent a chapter from adhering to the mandatory chapter rules,
they may ask the [Global Chapter
Committee](Global_Chapter_Committee "wikilink") for an exemption from
the policy. Additionally, the OWASP foundation will work with the
chapter to find a suitable alternative or workaround such as setting up
local mirrors of tools or wiki.

[Category:Chapter_Handbook](Category:Chapter_Handbook "wikilink")