In addition to holding meetings, you may want to grow and promote your
chapter by organizing a larger event such as an OWASP Day, Training Day,
or Regional Roadshow. Many of the considerations for these events are
similar to that for a meeting, just on a larger scale:

  - Venue
  - Date and Time
  - Speakers/topics
  - Catering
  - Promotion
  - Sponsor(s)

Additionally, you will need to consider whether there will be any cost
for attendees? Options include: free for anyone, free for members (so
individuals would have to purchase a membership to attend), cost for
everyone but discounted for members, or same cost for everyone. The best
way to plan for these events is to look at what some chapters have done
in the past and try and talk to the chapter leader or event organizer
who was involved.

Please register your event through the [OWASP Conference Management
System (OCMS)](https://ocms.owasp.org/), which will help OWASP track
events not only hosted by OWASP but also sponsored or supported by
Foundation funds. The Global Chapters Committee and Global Conferences
Committee are also willing to help with your event planning.

## Local OWASP Days

Many OWASP Chapters (or a group of chapters in the same region) have
planned an OWASP Day which consists of a full day of talks about AppSec
and sometimes and additional day of training, provided for little or no
cost. The primary goals of OWASP Days are to educate people and raise
awareness about application security, not make money.

Previous OWASP Days:

  - [OWASP New Zealand Day 26-27
    February 2015](https://www.owasp.org/index.php/OWASP_New_Zealand_Day_2015)
  - [OWASP Korea Day 12 June 2015](http://www.owasp.or.kr/koreaday)
  - [German OWASP Day 9
    June 2014](https://www.owasp.org/index.php/German_OWASP_Day_2014)\]
  - [OWASP BeNeLux Day 28-29
    November 2013](https://www.owasp.org/index.php/BeNeLux_OWASP_Day_2013)

## OWASP Training Days

OWASP Training Days are full day training courses that are free for
members (so non-members can attend by paying the $50 fee to becoming
members). The course aims to educate people about OWASP Projects by
providing a selection of mature and enterprise ready projects together
with practical examples of how to use them.

Training Materials: <https://www.owasp.org/index.php/OWASP_Training>

Material downloads:
<http://code.google.com/p/owasp-training/downloads/list>

Previous Training Days:

  - [London, UK - May
    2010](London/Training/OWASP_projects_and_resources_you_can_use_TODAY "wikilink")
  - [Dublin, Ireland - March
    2011](Ireland/Training/OWASP_projects_and_resources_you_can_use_TODAY "wikilink")
  - [Athens, Greece - May
    2011](Greece/Training/OWASP_projects_and_resources_you_can_use_TODAY "wikilink")

## Regional Roadshows

OWASP Regional Roadshows consist of one or more speakers visiting
multiple chapters in a region (touring) either as speakers for chapter
meetings or to provide training. These Roadshows help Chapter Leaders
bring in great international speakers as well as generate awareness in
their areas around Application Security and OWASP.

Previous Roadshows:

  - [Fabio Cerullo - Latam
    Tour 2011](http://www.google.com/url?q=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.owasp.org%2Findex.php%2FLatamTour2011&sa=D&sntz=1&usg=AFQjCNG6RKNk_lqiouIkgrordO60Ys85-g)
    (Training)
  - [OWASP EU
    Tour 2010](https://www.owasp.org/index.php/OWASP_EU_Tour_2010)
  - [OWASP O2
    Tour 2010](http://diniscruz.blogspot.com/2010/08/owaspo2-us-tour-aug-9-17-6-cities-in-8.html)

[Category:Chapter_Handbook](Category:Chapter_Handbook "wikilink")