*Adopted January 2011*

# Mission

The purpose of the OWASP Global Projects Committee (GPC) is to foster an
active OWASP developer community, facilitate contributions from OWASP
community members, and encourage adoption of OWASP Projects by the
global community at large. Additionally, the GPC shall provide support
and direction for new projects.

# Membership

The GPC shall be comprised of at most seven representatives as nominated
by the OWASP membership in compliance with the standard [committee
nomination process](How_to_Join_a_Committee "wikilink"). Once a Member
has been nominated to the committee, the current members shall vote on
that Memberâ€™s application. If approved, the committee shall submit the
application to the OWASP Board for final approval before sitting a new
committee Member. Every twelve months upon sitting a committee Member,
the GPC will vote to confirm that committee member for continued
membership.

## Chair

The GPC Members shall elect a Chair to serve a term of one year starting
with the first meeting of each calendar year.

# Responsibilities

## Members

Members are responsible for:

  - Attending at least 75% of the regular scheduled meetings.
  - Performing project reviews on a rotating basis as needed.
  - Voting on all formal decisions.
  - Stating their intention to reaffirm their commitment to the GPC
    every twelve months.

## Chair

The Chair is responsible for:

  - Attending or delegating a GPC Member to all OWASP Board Meetings.
  - Scheduling and conducting GPC Regular Meetings.
  - Managing the GPC Budget.
  - Ensuring meeting minutes are provided.

# Regular Meetings

A regular meeting of the GPC shall be held at least once a month.
Meetings will be scheduled based on the availability of the majority of
the committee Members. Meetings may be conducted virtually, but the GPC
must meet in person at least twice per year. Meetings shall be scheduled
at least one week in advance and will be open for any OWASP community
member to attend.

A majority of the number of elected GPC Members shall constitute a
quorum for the transaction of official GPC business. If quorum is not
established, the chair may adjourn the meeting.

# Minutes

Minutes of the meeting shall be recorded by the chair, or a designee,
and made available to all OWASP members.

# Voting

Any GPC Member can request a vote on an action. Any action taken by the
GPC shall be decided by the majority (50% + 1) of the quorum. Voting
will generally occur during regular meetings.

# Conflict of Interest

No GPC Member shall be permitted to vote on matters involving a project
they are leading or any self identified matter where the objectivity of
the Member may be in question. Any conflict of interest shall be entered
into the minutes.

# Removal From Committee

A committee Member may be removed when:

  - The Member participates in less than 50% of regular meetings in a
    calendar year
  - The Member does not participate in any regular meetings in a 90 day
    period without providing prior notice to the chair
  - A motion for removal is approved via a unanimous vote of the other
    committee Members

The Chair may be removed at any time by a majority vote of the other
committee Members. A new temporary Chair shall immediately be elected to
complete the term of the outgoing Chair.

[Category:Global_Projects_Committee](Category:Global_Projects_Committee "wikilink")