## .NET Incident Response

Understanding how to respond to an incident before it occurs is critical
to recovering operations. This section contains information for incident
response, and specific content for .NET web application and service
incident response handling. In addition to traditional logging
functions, how do we know if our application, service, database or other
software has been exploited.

### Areas of Concern

  - Incident Response Plan

As they say, it is not if, it is when you are attacked, what is the
plan?

  - Communicating

Who uses your software? How do you communicate the incident to your user
base?

  - Activating the plan

How do we know we've been attacked. Applications and services need to be
instrumented to provide information specific to functionality within the
software. What guidance or tools are needed to provide information to
incident response personnel.

  - Containment

Limit the exposure of the incident by isolating the damage.

  - Attack Identification and Severity assignment

Find the origin of the attack. Estimate exposure.

  - Evidence handling best practices

<!-- end list -->

  - Recovery and Continuity

### Articles & Projects

[Avoiding a Meltdown: The Management Incident Response
Team](http://www.csoonline.com/article/220975/Avoiding_a_Meltdown_The_Management_Incident_Response_Team)

[Windows Best Practices for Security Incident
Response](http://www.windowsecurity.com/whitepapers/Best-Practice-Security-Incident-Response.html)

[Guide to Integrating Forensic Techniques into Incident
Response](http://wiki.ittoolbox.com/index.php/Guide_to_Integrating_Forensic_Techniques_into_Incident_Response)

[Responding to IT Security
Incidents](http://www.microsoft.com/technet/security/guidance/disasterrecovery/responding_sec_incidents.mspx)

[Forum for Incident Response and Security Teams](http://www.first.org/)

### References

[Cheat Sheet for Server
Admin.](http://www.zeltser.com/network-os-security/security-incident-survey-cheat-sheet.pdf)

[Checking Microsoft WindowsÂ® Systems for Signs of
Compromise](http://www.ucl.ac.uk/cert/win_intrusion.pdf)

[SECURITY INCIDENT QUESTIONNAIRE FOR
RESPONDERS](http://www.zeltser.com/network-os-security/security-incident-questionnaire-cheat-sheet.pdf)

[SAN's SysAdmin Cheat
Sheet](http://sans.org/resources/winsacheatsheet.pdf)

[Creating a Computer Security Incident Response Team: A Process for
Getting Started](http://www.cert.org/csirts/Creating-A-CSIRT.html)

[Computer Security Incident Response Team
FAQ](http://www.cert.org/csirts/csirt_faq.html)

[Handbook for Computer Security Incident Response
Teams](http://www.sei.cmu.edu/publications/documents/03.reports/03hb002.html)

[Incident Response
Resources](http://www.attackprevention.com/Incident_Handling/Incident_Response_Team/)

[NIST SP800-86: Guide to Integrating Forensic Techniques into Incident
Response](http://csrc.nist.gov/publications/nistpubs/800-86/SP800-86.pdf)

### Tools

[Incident Response
Kit](http://oreilly.com/catalog/incidentres/chapter/ch07.html)

[Helix LiveCD](http://www.e-fense.com/helix/)

[Windows Preinstallation Environment
(WinPE)](http://oem.microsoft.com/public/seo/winpe.htm)