On November 20, 2010 **[OWASP Boston](Boston "wikilink")** launches the
inaugural **Boston Application Security Conference 2010** ([2010
BASC](2010_BASC_Homepage "wikilink")) to take place at Microsoft New
England Research and Development Center
([NERD](http://microsoftcambridge.com/Default.aspx)) in Cambridge, MA.
The BASC is a one day, informal conference, aimed at increasing
awareness and knowledge of application security. Many of the
presentations will cover state-of-the-art application security concepts.
The BASC is intended to appeal to a wide-array of attendees and is
expected to attract over 150 attendees. Application security
professionals, professional software developers, software quality
engineers, computer science students, and security software vendors
should be able to come to the BASC, learn, and hopefully enjoy
themselves at the same time expand upon their application security
knowledge and become better application security practitioners. We are
pleased to announce that **[Josh
Corman](http://www.the451group.com/about/bio_detail.php?eid=407)**,
renown 451 Group Security Analyst and evangelist and co-founder of
[Rugged Software](http://www.ruggedsoftware.org/) is our confirmed
keynote speaker for the [2010 BASC](2010_BASC_Homepage "wikilink").

We invite potential sponsors to partner with us on two levels: $700.00
PLATINUM Level and $500.00 GOLD level. Gold level sponsorship includes a
standard logo listing in program guide and event site and a table. We
are seeking three Platinum sponsors to cover breakfast, lunch times and
“happy hour” timeslots. Platinum sponsors benefits include premium
signage (large logo listing in program and event site), table and
additional credit/special mention in our program guide. There are 8
maximum sponsorships in all. ***OWASP Boston’s non-profit status means
all sponsorships are tax-deductible. OWASP Boston is a 501(c)(3)
organization.*** An extra benefit for sponsors is permanent brand
presence on the BASC website alongside slides and, in some cases, video
links of the conference presentation. Post-conference traffic to the
BASC site means continued exposure for our sponsors.

If you wish to sponsor this event or get more information about being a
sponsor, please feel free to [email
us](mailto:basc-sponsors@onestopappsecurity.com). 25% of all
sponsorships monies go to supporting [OWASP.org](http://owasp.org). As
you consider sponsorship of BASC 2010, we encourage you to become
corporate member (if not one currently) of OWASP to further the
organization’s efforts to improve the global application security
landscape.

## Sponsorship Logo Privileges

Gold Sponsors get a logo on the [2010 BASC
Sponsors](2010_BASC_Sponsors "wikilink") page of the BASC website as
well as printed icons at various locations and on handouts at the
conference. For the website, the logo should be about 17.5K pixels. This
can be a 132x132 square logo or a 290x60 rectangular logo.


<center>

![2010_BASC_SponsorLogo-132x132.png](2010_BASC_SponsorLogo-132x132.png
"2010_BASC_SponsorLogo-132x132.png")

![2010_BASC_SponsorLogo-290x60.png](2010_BASC_SponsorLogo-290x60.png
"2010_BASC_SponsorLogo-290x60.png")


</center>

We will be happy to work with other shapes in the same general size.

Platinum sponsors get a logo of the above dimensions at the top of every
page of the BASC website. They also get a banner logo of about 755x160
pixels.


<center>

![2010_BASC_SponsorLogo-755x160.png](2010_BASC_SponsorLogo-755x160.png
"2010_BASC_SponsorLogo-755x160.png")


</center>

Platinum sponsors will get printed icons at prime locations and of
larger size at various locations and on handouts at the conference. Each
platinum sponsor will also be credited as sponsoring one of the [three
food events](2010_BASC_Agenda "wikilink") during the conference.