__FORCETOC__ We would like to thank our speakers for donating their
time and effort to help make this conference successful.  Like steel and
concrete, software has become modern infrastructure, but is not nearly
as reliable and is nearly infinitely attackable. For substantive
progress, we need pervasive, cultural recognition and demand for the
value Rugged infrastructure assures. Find out why Rugged is succeeding
where previous calls for security have struggled.  The power of HTML5
allows developers to create web applications not just structured
content, but its new features has increased the attack surface. This
presentation will demo and discuss new attack opportunities,
particularly on client machines, including abusing the offline
application cache and SQL injection via file-based client-side
databases.  We present a new architectural construct analogous to the
crumple zone in an automobile. It consists of a layer of intelligent
service proxies that work together to provide both signature-based and
non-signature based defenses. We present our initial design for Java RMI
based services and compare it with web application firewalls.  Business
intelligence is a multi-billion industry. At the top of the product food
chain is BusinessObjects. BusinessObjects is a very widely deployed
business intelligence tool thatâ€™s focus is in managing, querying,
analyzing, and reporting on business data. It is used by government
entities (e.g. U.S Air Force), telecom companies (e.g. Verizon), car
manufacturers (e.g. Nissan), and beverage companies (e.g. Coors) to
retain and control vast amounts of data. If you are a penetration tester
chances are you have run into at least one BusinessObjects server during
an engagement. Yet, very few vulnerabilities have been publically
released and, to the best of the authors knowledge, no white papers have
been released on attack methodologies for BusinessObjects itself. In
this presentation we will present the entire lifecycle of attacking a
BusinessObjects server from external and internal enumeration (e.g.
Google dorks), fingerprinting techniques, account enumeration
vulnerabilities, specific attack vectors for gaining access to accounts,
privilege escalation vulnerabilities, and eventually full system
compromise vulnerabilities that we have found during our research.
Anyone interesting in attacking an organization that has BusinessObjects
or SOA deployed in their environment should attend this talk.  The
ever-increasing prevalence of mobile devices brings with it a slew of
security problems. Applications running directly on mobile devices(and
web apps optimized for mobile clients) are ripe for the picking even by
unsophisticated attackers. The attack classes that once applied to
traditional network-facing, fat client, and web applications are now
valid for mobile apps, as well. Insecure authentication and access
control; home-grown crypto; and memory management problems are just some
of the issues resurfacing on this new frontier. This presentation will
discuss the security of some of the most popular applications running on
mainstream mobile platforms such as Android, iPhone, Blackberry, and
Windows Mobile.  Business logic attacks are a set of legal application
transactions that are used to carry out a malicious operation that is
not part of normal business practices. This presentation will provide a
quick introduction to business logic attacks, their unique
characteristics and the motivation behind their uptick. . Concluding
this session we will discuss using multiple advanced techniques to
battle these attacks, rather than relying exclusively on application
code  As defenses to exploits have become more sophisticated, so have
the attacks required to circumvent them. A historical perspective will
be presented, elaborating on the techniques used and the real reason why
they were developed. Modern exploit technique has its roots in solving
problems for the attacker, resulting in advanced exploits for the
following categories of flaw: Stack Overflows, Heap Overflows,
Cross-Site Scripting, SQL Injection, and Path Manipulations. Learn about
the roots of techniques like Stack cookies/Stackguard/Run-Time Stack
Checking, DEP and ASLR, from attacks like trampolining, return-oriented
programming, the evolution of fuzzing techniques, static and dynamic
analysis for both attacking software.  Rob presents a number of
scenarios that walk participants through the basics of SQL injection,
XSS and CSRF, along with a few other tricks he has up his sleeve.
Participants will come away with a foundation for further security
learning. Those already knowledgeable on application security issues
will learn some new techniques for presenting and teaching this
information in a clear, concise and effective manner.  A lighthearted
look at the real threats that people face in personal computing,
specifically when connected to unknown network at coffee shops and
airports. John will cover many of these threats and discuss tools and
best practices everyone can engage in to ensure they protect their
machine and information from these risks.  URL shorteners are ubiquitous
in today's Internet culture and have a variety of uses for a variety of
users. While many have theorized about the security issues and usages
involved with URL shortening services (of which there are an impressive
number), this talk will aim to demonstrate them, along with interesting
statistics such as the percentage of Goatse-equivalent short URLs. Come
see what's behind the short URLs: personal documents, parasitic storage,
authentication credentials, attacks and more\!  Tokenization has become
increasingly popular as a method to protect sensitive data and reduce
the scope of security requirements such as PCI DSS. Many solutions now
integrate directly with web applications, tokenizing data before it ever
reaches internal corporate systems. As developers, you may be tasked
with integrating tokenization into your applications. If done correctly,
this can be a big win for your organization. This talk will cover the
types of tokenization solutions, seeing through the marketing hype and
vendor claims, and how to avoid some common mistakes that could greatly
reduce tokenizations effectiveness.  SAMM is an open framework to help
organizations formulate and implement a strategy for software security
that is tailored to the specific risks facing the organization. The
building blocks of the model are the three maturity levels defined for
each of the twelve security practices. These define a wide variety of
activities to reduce security risks and increase software assurance.
Additional details are included to measure successful activity
performance, understand the associated assurance benefits, estimate
personnel and other costs.

<table width="100%">

<tr>

<td width="25%">

![<File:AuricLogo_300x133.png>](AuricLogo_300x133.png
"File:AuricLogo_300x133.png")

</td>

<td width="25%">

![<File:PAN-TNSC-290x109.jpg>](PAN-TNSC-290x109.jpg
"File:PAN-TNSC-290x109.jpg")

</td>

</tr>

</table>

<table width="100%">

<tr>

<td width="45%">

![<File:Whitehatlogo-medium.png>](Whitehatlogo-medium.png
"File:Whitehatlogo-medium.png")

</td>

<td width="45%">

![<File:AppSecDC-2010-Sponsor-fortifyhp.gif>](AppSecDC-2010-Sponsor-fortifyhp.gif
"File:AppSecDC-2010-Sponsor-fortifyhp.gif")

</td>

</tr>

</table>