__FORCETOC__ We would like to thank our speakers for donating their
time and effort to help make this conference successful.

### Josh Corman

**The 451 Group**
*Panelist*
Joshua Corman is the Research Director of the 451 Group's enterprise
security practice. Corman has more than a decade of experience with
security and networking software, most recently serving as Principal
Security Strategist for IBM Internet Security Systems. Corman’s research
cuts across sectors to the core challenges of the industry, and drives
evolutionary strategies toward emerging technologies and shifting
economics. Corman is a candid and highly coveted speaker and has spoken
at leading industry events such as RSA, Interop, ISACA, and SANS. His
efforts to educate and challenge the industry recently lead NetworkWorld
magazine to recognize him as a [top innovators of
IT](http://www.networkworld.com/supp/2009/outlook/010509-tech-people-to-know.html)
for 2009. Corman also serves on the Faculty for IANS and is a staunch
advocate for CISOs everywhere. In 2010, Corman also co-founded
[RuggedSoftware.org](http://rugedsoftware.org) – a value based
initiative to raise awareness and usher in an era of secure digital
infrastructure.

### Ming Chow

**Tufts University, CS Department**
Ming Chow is a scholar of science and technology and a Lecturer at the
Tufts University Department of Computer Science. His areas of interests
are computer security, game development, web application security, and
Computer Science in Education. Ming co-edited a special issue of IEEE
Security & Privacy on securing online games with Gary McGraw of Cigital,
Inc. published in May 2009. Ming is a frequent guest speaker, and have
spoke at numerous organizations, including New England Association of
Insurance Fraud Investigators (NEAIFI), and the New England Chapter of
the High Technology Crime Investigation Association (HTCIA-NE), the
Greater Boston Chapter of the Association of Certified Fraud Examiners
(ACFE), John Hancock, and the Massachusetts Office of the Attorney
General (AGO). Finally, Ming is a SANS GIAC Certified Incident Handler
(GCIH).

### Andrew Gronosky

**Raytheon/BBN Technologies**
Mr. Andrew Gronosky is a staff engineer at Raytheon BBN Technologies. He
has experience developing software for a variety of applications
including data analysis and visualization, digital signal processing,
and parallel and distributed systems. He holds a Master of Science
degree in mathematics from Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute and is a
member of the IEEE and the ACM.

### Joshua "Jabra" Abraham, Will Vandevanter

**Rapid7**
Joshua "Jabra" Abraham joined Rapid7 in 2006 as a Security Consultant.
Josh has extensive IT Security and Auditing experience and worked as an
enterprise risk assessment analyst for Hasbro Corporation. Josh
specializes in penetration testing, web application security
assessments, wireless security assessments, and custom code development.
He has spoken at BlackHat, DefCon, ShmooCon, The SANS Pentest Summit,
Infosec World, CSI, OWASP Conferences, LinuxWorld, Comdex and BLUG. In
his spare time, he contributes code to open source security projects
such as the BackTrack LiveCD, BeEF, Nikto, Fierce, and PBNJ. He is
frequently quoted in the media regarding Microsoft Patch Tuesday and web
application security by ComputerWorld, DarkReading and SC Magazine.

Mr. Vandevanter joined Rapid7 in 2008. Will has IT Security experience
with a focus in web application security and secure software
engineering. Will specializes in penetration testing, web application
security assessments, and secure code development. In the past Will has
also worked on a few different Open Source security projects including
porting SELinux to OpenMoko and other Linux based mobile platforms. Will
holds a Bachelors Degree in Mathematics and Computer Science from McGill
University and Masters Degree in Computer Science from James Madison
University.

### Christien Rioux

**SOURCE Conference/Veracode**
Christien Rioux is co-founder and chief scientist of Veracode, the
world's only binary-analysis powered online application risk management
service. Prior to Veracode, he was a founder at security consulting firm
@stake, a member of the hacker think-tank L0pht Heavy Industries, and a
graduate of Massachusetts Institute Of Technology. Today, he focuses on
algorithms to automate the difficult task of reverse-engineering and
analyzing binaries for security vulnerabilities.

### Paul Schofield

**Imperva**
With broad business and technical experience ranging from mergers and
acquisitions to incident response and investigations, Paul Schofield is
a frequent and energetic public speaker. With over fourteen years of
experience in Information Security and Risk Management, his diverse
background he brings insightful perspectives to security and risk
management discussions. Paul is currently a Senior Security Engineer
with Imperva, an award winning application Security company.

### Rob Cheyne

**Safelight Security Advisors**
*Expert Panel Moderator*
Rob is the CEO of Safelight Security, a leading provider of both
instructor-led and computer-based security training. He is a
Boston-based information security expert who has taught information
security training classes to over ten thousand students, including
developers, architects, and managers for industry-leading organizations.
He has 20 years of experience in the information technology field and
has been working in information security since 1998. Over the years, he
has played the role of software developer, systems integrator, security
consultant and trainer. Rob was a co-founder of @stake, a highly
regarded pioneer in information security consulting. In this role, he
led and conducted secure architecture and design reviews, secure code
reviews, application penetration tests, security assessments, and
training for numerous Fortune 500 companies. Rob worked on @stake's
SmartRisk Analyzer team, building software that automatically scans
applications for vulnerabilities, and he was the author of LC4, a
version of the award-winning L0phtCrack password auditing tool. @stake
was acquired by Symantec Corporation in October 2004. Rob regularly
speaks at security conferences, and frequently presents to the Boston
OWASP chapter on a variety of security topics. His specialties are
application security architecture and information security training.

### John Carmichael

**Safelight Security Advisors**
John Carmichael applies his software security expertise to the creation
and delivery of world class security training for some of the world’s
largest organizations. At Safelight Security Advisors, he is an integral
part of the product team creating best of breed computer-based training
courses. Prior to joining Safelight Security Advisors, John was a
security trainer and consultant at both Security Innovation and Cigital.
His software security experience is rooted in a background of software
development with deep expertise in a myriad of languages and
environments. He has developed enterprise class software for large
organizations such as Massachusetts Executive Office of Health and Human
Services and Computer Science Corporation. John earned his B.S. degree
in Computer Science and Business Administration from the University of
Vermont and an M.S. degree in Computer Information System Security from
Boston University.

### Dan Crowley

**Core Security**
Dan Crowley is an independent security researcher and lecturer also
working for Core Security Technologies. Dan runs a security education
group called CSEC, which is in the process of becoming a hackerspace. In
his free time, he can frequently be found playing with Web-based
technologies and locks.

### Kenneth Smith

Ken Smith, CISSP, CISA, GCIH is an Enterprise Information Security
Architect with 15 years of experience in the information security space.
He currently leads efforts related to IT risk management, compliance,
and privacy for a private $1B e-Commerce, Catalog, and Retail
organization. As a consultant, and former QSA, Ken has an extensive
background in PCI DSS and has helped many organizations in the area of
strategic planning, assessment, remediation plan development, and
security program design.

### Zach Lanier

**Intrepidus Group**
Zach Lanier is a Senior Security Consultant with the Intrepidus Group, a
firm specializing in security assessment services. Zach's areas of focus
are network and application penetration testing, intrusion analysis, and
general hackery, with frequent dabbling in security and privacy
research.

### Shakeel Tufail

**Fortify**
*Panelist*
Shakeel Tufail is a Federal Practice Manager at Fortify, an HP company,
where his responsibilities include refining customer security
requirements, managing Fortify product deployments and delivering
security services. Mr. Tufail brings over 18 years of experience to the
IT industry in the areas of network engineering, software development,
quality assurance, risk management, and security. Recently, he led over
30 enterprise security assessments for DoD and Fortune Top 50 commercial
organizations that directly led to improvement of their risk profile.
Prior to joining Fortify, Mr. Tufail held positions such as Deputy
Program Manager for the Pentagon Force Protection Agency, Managing
Partner for Insyte, General Manager of CompUSA, and Lead Release
Engineer for AOL Time-Warner’s AOL Instant Messenger development team
and HOST Servers QA group. An active software assurance community
member, Mr. Tufail contributes to standards-defining efforts including
the Common Weakness Enumeration (CWE), the Common Attack Pattern
Enumeration and Classification (CAPEC) and other elements of the
Software Assurance Programs of the Department of Homeland Security, NSA,
and the Department of Defense. He has accumulated over 25 industry
standard certifications and is a member of OWASP, ISACA, ISSA, and IEEE.
In his spare time, Shakeel enjoys travel, photography, and technical
training at local schools. Recently, he hiked the Himalayas to Mt.
Everest BaseCamp.

### Justin Peavey

**Omgeo, LLC**
*Panelist*
Justin S. Peavey is the Chief Information Security Officer for Omgeo
LLC, the market leader in allocation, confirmation/affirmation,
settlement notification, enrichment, operational analytics and
counterparty risk management services between trade counterparties..
Prior to joining Omgeo, Justin was a VP at State Street performing
security architecture and enterprise security program development with a
specialization in application security. Justin has been working in the
information security field for over 15 years primarily for the finance
and defense industries and has worked with such companies as Lockheed
Martin, Pratt & Whitney, Fidelity Investments, John Hancock, IBM
Scientific Research Center, and RSA Security. Justin’s background is in
security program development, security architecture, software
development, and service delivery management.

### Adriel Desautels

**NetRagard, LLC**
*Panelist*
Adriel T. Desautels is the President and CTO of Netragard, LLC. Among
other things Adriel specializes in the delivery of advanced, high-threat
anti-hacking services and covert network penetration methodologies.
Prior to founding Netragard Adriel founded the internationally
recognized SNOsoft Research Team, which quickly became the think tank
for Secure Network Operations, Inc. Today SNOsoft is owned and operated
by Netragard LLC. Adriel also has extensive experience and expertise in
the design and deployment of sophisticated Intrusion Detection and
Intrusion Prevention (IDS/IPS) systems. In early 2002 Adriel designed an
IDS/IPS technology with powerful event correlation capabilities capable
of accurately identifying real events buried in a high volume of noise.
That technology was later acquired by a private third party. As a result
of his expertise Adriel has acted as an expert witness in U.S. Federal
Court. Today Adriel’s responsibilities at Netragard include but are not
limited to the design and management of all of Netragard’s professional
services. Adriel’s secondary responsibility is to run and maintain
Netragard’s Exploit Acquisition Program (EAP). EAP is designed to
acquire bleeding edge, high value research and intelligence from the
hacking community.

### Brian Weekes

**GMO**
*Panelist*
Brian Weekes is an Infrastructure Team Lead at GMO managing the Linux
Engineering group with over 14 years of experience in Information
Technology. He played a major role in developing the foundation for the
market data plant and trading platforms used for quantitative trading
and research. Prior to joining GMO, Brian worked at Wyeth as a Senior
Systems Architect to build a new infrastructure and migrate scientific
discovery research to high performance computing environments on the
Linux platform.

  - Conference Organizer
      - [Jim Weiler](mailto:jim.weiler@owasp.org), Chairperson
  - Program Committee:
      - [Mark Arnold](mailto:mark.arnold@something.somewhere.com)
      - [Zach Lanier](mailto:zach.lanier@something.somewhere.com)
      - [Jim Weiler](mailto:jim.weiler@owasp.org), Chairperson
  - Sponsorship Committee:
      - [Mark Arnold](mailto:mark.arnold@something.somewhere.com)
  - Website Editor
      - [Neil Smithline](mailto:neil.smithline@owasp.org)