## Manchester Chapter meeting 2011 August 24th

This was the first [Manchester
Chapter](https://www.owasp.org/index.php/Manchester) meeting, and was
very kindly hosted by KPMG.

45 people attended, and there were another 10 who we were unable to find
space for.

**18:20-18:30**

OWASP Chapter introduction. OWASP values and membership. Chapter
information.

OWASP Manchester board member

**Talk: SSL: Paved with Good Intentions**

'''Slides: '''

  - ![<File:SSL_paved_with_good_intentions.pdf>](SSL_paved_with_good_intentions.pdf
    "File:SSL_paved_with_good_intentions.pdf")
  - ![File: Colour_map_of_CAs.pdf](_Colour_map_of_CAs.pdf
    "File: Colour_map_of_CAs.pdf")

At first glance, SSL seems very complicated to add to your site.

Once you become a little more knowledgeable you know that it's a simple
matter of getting a certificate from a trusted CA and installing it.

Unfortunately you were right the first time, and it is actually very
complicated to do correctly.

This talk aims to explain how the various parts of SSL fit together to
provide users with decent security, showing the problems components like
OCSP and certificates solve.

As well as explaining the evolution of SSL over time, it will cover
enhancements that are just reaching deployment such as Server Name
Indication and OCSP stapling.

Finally, it will also highlight various ways that everyone from SSL
implementers, system administrators, browser developers to users can
manage to undo all this hard work and make it insecure anyway.

**Speaker: Richard Moore, CTO [Westpoint
Ltd](http://www.westpoint.ltd.uk/)**

Richard is CTO of Westpoint Ltd, a security testing company based in
Manchester. He has been working in the security industry for many years
providing services to a wide range of clients including multi-nationals
and banks.

Richard has extensive experience in SSL from both the point of view of a
software developer as one of the maintainers of the SSL support in
Nokia's Qt library and KDE, and also from a security testing
perspective.

**Talk: Forensic Readiness – Give your investigators a fighting chance**

'''Slides: '''

  - ![<File:Incidence_readiness_Manchester.pdf>](Incidence_readiness_Manchester.pdf
    "File:Incidence_readiness_Manchester.pdf")

Investigators are often faced with poorly configured systems which
thwart the investigative process. This leads commonly leads to incident
response reports with fragmented timelines of attack and leaves risk
managers having to make difficult decisions based on incomplete
information.

Companies that consider Forensic Readiness put their investigators in a
much stronger position and can expect considerably more accurate
outcomes from a forensic investigation.

This talk looks at the same web application attack, carried out on
systems with differing audit controls. The first system has ‘out of the
box’ logging and the second has had logging improved through a Forensic
Readiness process carried out before the attack.

We approach the machines as an Incident Response Specialist would and
compare the evidence stores and the ability of the investigators to make
accurate conclusions based on the evidence available. We will look at
the contrasting final reports which are produced with the differing
levels of forensic evidence, highlighting the decisions that have to be
made based on the varying level of detail provided in the reports.

Someone for whom forensic investigation of web application exploits is a
new topic will gain an understanding of some of the forensic techniques
possible. Whilst attendees who already have some forensic investigation
knowledge will understand how forensic readiness can have a massive
effect on the outcome of investigations.

**Speaker: Ryan Jones,
[SpiderLabs](https://www.trustwave.com/spiderLabs.php) Incident Response
Team leader**

Ryan Jones currently leads the SpiderLabs Incident Response Team in
EMEA. The team commonly manages data compromises related to cardholder
data but are also regularly involved in other projects such as ATM
compromises and data breaches caused by internal staff. The Incident
Response team also carry out proactive engagements to ensure that
customers have an effective incident response plan; drawing upon
extensive knowledge of how it goes wrong in real data security breaches
to improve companies’ approach to Incident Response.

During Ryan’s incident response career Ryan has worked for both UK
National Law enforcement and private companies. He has been involved
with both criminal and corporate investigations with scope ranging from
a single mobile telephone to multinational networks. For the past 4
years, Ryan has been a corporate first responder involved with a wide
variety of businesses from small companies to multinationals during
times when they have been struggling to react to a rapidly changing data
compromise situation. Ryan firmly believes that a consultative approach
coupled with the appropriate technical knowledge is key to successful
incident response engagements.

Ryan graduated from the University of Kent with a First Class BSc in
Computer Science. He is also a PCI QSA. In his spare time he can be
found skydiving at various dropzones around the country.