__FORCETOC__ We would like to thank our speakers for donating their
time and effort to help make this conference successful.

### Michael Anderson

**NetSPI**
Michael Anderson is a security consultant at NetSPI with experience in
penetration testing, application security, computer forensics, network
architecture, and code reviews. He has presented at DefCON 18 on
cloud-based threats, and is currently engaged in research on threats to
mobile infrastructure.

### Francis Brown

**Stach & Liu**
Francis Brown, CISA, CISSP, MCSE, is a Managing Partner at Stach & Liu,
a security consulting firm providing IT security services to the Fortune
500 and global financial institutions as well as U.S. and foreign
governments. Before joining Stach & Liu, Francis served as an IT
Security Specialist with the Global Risk Assessment team of Honeywell
International where he performed network and application penetration
testing, product security evaluations, incident response, and risk
assessments of critical infrastructure. Prior to that, Francis was a
consultant with the Ernst & Young Advanced Security Centers and
conducted network, application, wireless, and remote access penetration
tests for Fortune 500 clients.

Francis has presented his research at leading conferences such as Black
Hat USA, DEFCON, InfoSec World, ToorCon, and HackCon and has been cited
in numerous industry and academic publications.

Francis holds a Bachelor of Science and Engineering from the University
of Pennsylvania with a major in Computer Science and Engineering and a
minor in Psychology. While at Penn, Francis taught operating system
implementation, C programming, and participated in DARPA-funded research
into advanced intrusion prevention system techniques.

### John Carmichael

**Safelight**
John Carmichael is the Director of Product Management at [Safelight
Security](http://www.safelightsecurity.com). John is responsible for the
product strategy for all training products at Safelight. John has
applied his software security expertise to the creation and delivery of
security training for some of the world’s largest organizations. His
experience is rooted in a background of software development with deep
expertise in a myriad of languages and environments. John has developed
enterprise-class software for large organizations such as Massachusetts
Executive Office of Health and Human Services and Computer Science
Corporation. John earned a B.S. degree in Computer Science and Business
Administration from the University of Vermont and a M.S. degree in
Computer Information System Security from Boston University.

### Robert Cohn

**Intel**
Robert Cohn was the initial developer and project leader for the Pin
dynamic instrumentation system. He has 20 years experience in advanced
and product development for compilers, post-link optimization, binary
translation, instrumentation, and CPU simulation.

### Josh Corman

**Akamai**
Joshua Corman has more than a decade of experience with security and
networking software, most recently serving as Principal Security
Strategist for IBM Internet Security Systems. Corman’s research cuts
across sectors to the core challenges of the industry, and drives
evolutionary strategies toward emerging technologies and shifting
economics. Corman is a candid and highly coveted speaker and has spoken
at leading industry events such as RSA, Interop, ISACA, and SANS. His
efforts to educate and challenge the industry recently lead NetworkWorld
magazine to recognize him as a [top innovators of
IT](http://www.networkworld.com/supp/2009/outlook/010509-tech-people-to-know.html)
for 2009. Corman also serves on the Faculty for IANS and is a staunch
advocate for CISOs everywhere. In 2010, Corman also co-founded
[RuggedSoftware.org](http://rugedsoftware.org) – a value based
initiative to raise awareness and usher in an era of secure digital
infrastructure.

### Rob Cheyne

**Safelight Security Advisors**
Rob is the CEO of Safelight Security, a leading provider of both
instructor-led and computer-based security training. He is a
Boston-based information security expert who has taught information
security training classes to over ten thousand students, including
developers, architects, and managers for industry-leading organizations.
He has 20 years of experience in the information technology field and
has been working in information security since 1998. Over the years, he
has played the role of software developer, systems integrator, security
consultant and trainer. Rob was a co-founder of @stake, a highly
regarded pioneer in information security consulting. In this role, he
led and conducted secure architecture and design reviews, secure code
reviews, application penetration tests, security assessments, and
training for numerous Fortune 500 companies. Rob worked on @stake's
SmartRisk Analyzer team, building software that automatically scans
applications for vulnerabilities, and he was the author of LC4, a
version of the award-winning L0phtCrack password auditing tool. @stake
was acquired by Symantec Corporation in October 2004. Rob regularly
speaks at security conferences, and frequently presents to the Boston
OWASP chapter on a variety of security topics. His specialties are
application security architecture and information security training.

### Ming Chow

**Lecturer at Tufts University Department of Computer Science**
Ming Chow is a scholar of science and technology and a Lecturer at the
Tufts University Department of Computer Science. His areas of interests
are computer security, game development, web application security, and
Computer Science in Education. Ming co-edited a special issue of IEEE
Security & Privacy on securing online games with Gary McGraw of Cigital,
Inc. published in May 2009. Ming is a frequent guest speaker, and have
spoke at numerous organizations, including New England Association of
Insurance Fraud Investigators (NEAIFI), and the New England Chapter of
the High Technology Crime Investigation Association (HTCIA-NE), the
Greater Boston Chapter of the Association of Certified Fraud Examiners
(ACFE), John Hancock, and the Massachusetts Office of the Attorney
General (AGO). Finally, Ming is a SANS GIAC Certified Incident Handler
(GCIH).

### Jack Daniel

**Tenable**
Jack Daniel is old, and has a Unix Beard, so people mistakenly assume he
knows stuff. He still makes no attempt to correct this gross
misunderstanding. Jack has proven himself to be an inciteful moderator
on compliance topics. He has many years of network and systems
administration experience, and a bunch of letters after his name. Jack
lives and breathes network security as Product Manager for Tenable.

### Zach Lanier

**The Intrepidus Group**
Zach Lanier is a Principal Consultant with the Intrepidus Group,
specializing in network, mobile, and web application penetration
testing. Prior to joining Intrepidus, Zach served as Senior Network
Security Analyst at Harvard Business School, and Security Assessment
Practice Manager at Rapid7. Zach likes Android, vegan food, and cats
(but not as food).

### HaoQi Li

**Mozilla**
HaoQi Li is a CS student at MIT. She interned on the Infrastructure
Security Team at Mozilla this summer and created MozSecWorld under the
mentorship of Michael Coates, an OWASP member.

### Anirudh Ramachandran

**Nouvou**
Anirudh Ramachandran serves as Chief Technology Officer of Nouvou.

### Christien Rioux

**Veracode**
Christien Rioux, co-founder and chief scientist of Veracode, is
responsible for the technical vision and design of Veracode’s advanced
security technology. Working with the engineering team, his primary role
is the design of new algorithms and security analysis techniques.

Before founding Veracode, Mr. Rioux founded @stake, a security
consultancy, as well as L0pht Heavy Industries, a renowned security
think tank. Mr. Rioux was a research scientist at @stake, where he was
responsible for developing new software analysis techniques and for
applying cutting edge research to solve difficult security problems. He
also led and managed the development for a new enterprise security
product in 2000 known as the SmartRisk Analyzer (SRA), a binary analysis
tool and its patented algorithms, and has been responsible for its
growth and development for the past five years

### Roy Wattanasin

Roy Wattanasin is a information security professional working in the
healthcare industry. He spends most of his time on leading and
developing an organization's information security program and working on
PCI-DSS compliance, privacy, regulatory efforts, education efforts and
with other projects. He also teaches information security at Brandeis
University.

### Andrew Wilson

**Trustwave SpiderLabs**
Andrew Wilson is a Security Consultant at Trustwave. He is a member of
Trustwave's SpiderLabs - the advanced security team focused on
penetration testing, incident response, and application security. He has
over 9 years experience building, testing, and securing software in a
variety of industries. Andrew specializes in application security
assessment, penetration testing, and secure development life cycle.
Andrew is an active speaker in the developer and security communities.
Andrew is recognized as a Microsoft MVP in Windows Azure.