### Michael Anderson

**NetSPI**
Michael Anderson is a security consultant at NetSPI with experience in
penetration testing, application security, computer forensics, network
architecture, and code reviews. He has presented at DEF CON 18 on
cloud-based threats, and is currently engaged in research on threats to
mobile infrastructure.

### Rob Cheyne

**Safelight Security Advisors**
Rob Cheyne is the founder and CEO of Safelight Security, a leading
provider of information security education programs. He has taught
information security training classes to tens of thousands of students,
including developers, architects, and managers for industry-leading
organizations. He has over 20 years of experience in the information
technology field and has been working in information security since
1998.

Rob was also an early employee @stake, a highly regarded pioneer in
information security consulting. In addition to security consulting for
Fortune 500 customers, he was the author of LC4, a version of the
award-winning L0phtCrack password auditing tool, and he worked on the
code scanning technology that was eventually spun off as Veracode.

Rob is on the advisory board for the Source security conference and
regularly speaks at security conferences on a variety of security
topics.

### Ming Chow

**Tufts University**
Ming Chow is a Lecturer at the Tufts University Department of Computer
Science. His areas of work are in web and mobile engineering, web
security, and game development. He was also a web application developer
for ten years at Harvard University. Ming has spoken at numerous
organizations and conferences including the High Technology Crime
Investigation Association - New England Chapter (HTCIA-NE), the
Massachusetts Office of the Attorney General (AGO), John Hancock, OWASP,
InfoSec World (2011 and 2012), DEF CON 19 (2011), the Design Automation
Conference (2011), and Intel.

### Josh Corman

**Akamai Technologies**
Joshua Corman is the Director of Security Intelligence for Akamai
Technologies and has more than a decade of experience with security and
networking software. Most recently he served as Research Director for
Enterprise Security at The 451 Group following his time as Principal
Security Strategist for IBM Internet Security Systems. Mr. Corman's
research cuts across sectors to the core security challenges plaguing
the IT industry, and helps to drive evolutionary strategies toward
emerging technologies and shifting economics. His research and education
efforts won him the title of [Top Influencer of
IT](http://www.networkworld.com/supp/2009/outlook/010509-tech-people-to-know.html)
by NetworkWold magazine in 2009. Mr. Corman is a candid and
highly-coveted speaker with engagements at leading industry events such
as RSA, DEFCON, Interop, ISACA, and SANS. As a staunch advocate for
CISOs, Corman also serves as a Fellow with the Ponemon Institute, on the
Faculty for IANS, and co-founded [Rugged
Software](http://www.ruggedsoftware.org/) - a value-based initiative to
raise awareness and usher in an era of secure digital infrastructure.

### Ehsan Foroughi

**SD Elements**
Ehsan Foroughi is an application security expert with 8+ years of
management and technical experience in security research. He has an
extensive development and reverse engineering background. He led the
Vulnerability Research Subscription Service for TELUS Security Labs
(called Assurent before being acquired by TELUS). Under his management,
the Vulnerability Research Service went through being a startup product
to a service used by over 80% of the major security vendors. As an
entrepreneur, he has also served as the founder and CTO of TELTUB, a
successful telecommunication startup. Ehsan holds a M.Sc. from the
University of Toronto in Computer Science, a B.Eng. from Sharify
University of Technology, as well CISM and CISSP designations. SD
Elements is a spin-off of Security Compass.

### Jim Manico

**White Hat Security**
Jim Manico is the VP of Security Architecture for WhiteHat Security. Jim
is part of the WhiteHat Static Analysis Software Testing (SAST) team,
leading the data-driven, Web service portion of the SAST service. He
also provides secure coding and developer awareness training for
WhiteHat using his 7+ years of experience delivering developer-training
courses for SANS, Aspect Security and others.

### Brian Mather

**Denim Group**
Brian Mather has worked in the information services industry for over 13
years. At Denim Group, he has managed numerous enterprise application
security and secure software development projects, and is currently
managing Denim Group’s open-source application vulnerability management
system, ThreadFix. Brian has served as the managing partner and owner of
an information technology services firm for 10 years, and is uniquely
skilled at helping businesses meet their technology needs.

### Scott Matsumoto

**Cigital**
Scott Matsumoto is a Principal Consultant at Cigital bringing over 20
years of commercial software product development experience to the
company. At Cigital, Scott is responsible for the security architecture
practice within the company. He consults for many of Cigital’s clients
on security architecture topics such as Mobile Application Security,
Cloud Computing Security, SOA Security, fine-grained entitlements
systems and SOA Governance. His prior experience encompasses development
of component-based middleware, performance management systems, graphical
UIs, language compilers, database management systems and operating
system kernels.

Scott is a founding member of the Cloud Security Alliance (CSA) and is
actively involved in its Trusted Computing Initiative.

### Joey Peloquin

**F5**

### Rohit Sethi

**SD Elements**
Rohit Sethi is a specialist in building security controls into the
software development life cycle (SDLC). He has helped improve software
security at some of the world's most security sensitive organizations in
financial services, software, ecommerce, healthcare, telecom and other
industries. Rohit has built and taught SANS courses on Secure J2EE
development. He has spoken and taught at FS-ISAC, RSA, OWASP, Secure
Development Conference, Shmoocon, CSI National, Sec Tor, Infosecurity,
CFI-CIRT, and many others. Mr. Sethi has written articles for InfoQ, Dr.
Dobb's Journal, TechTarget, Security Focus and the Web Application
Security Consortium (WASC), has appeared on Fox News Live, and has been
quoted as an expert in application security for ITWorldCanada and
Computer World. He also created the OWASP Design Patterns Security
Analysis project. SD Elements is a spin-off of Security Compass.

### Roy Wattanasin

Roy Wattanasin is a information security professional working in the
healthcare industry. He spends most of his time on leading and
developing an organization's information security program and working on
PCI-DSS compliance, privacy, regulatory efforts, education efforts and
with other projects. He also teaches information security at Brandeis
University.

### Greg Wolford

**Fortify**
Greg Wolford is a Software Security Consultant and Manager for HP
Fortify. Prior to working at Fortify, Greg was a Sr. VP and Sr. Director
of development for organizations in the Dallas/Fort Worth area and
worked as a developer prior to that. Greg uses his knowledge of
development and development processes to help organizations bake
security into the SDLC.

### Matt Wood

**Sunera**
Matt has been active within the security community for the past 10 years
as a developer, researcher, and consultant. As a penetration tester with
Sunera, Matt has lead social engineering, mobile application,
internal/external network and web application penetration assessments
with the specific goal of vulnerability identification and active
exploitation of identified vulnerabilities. Prior to Sunera, Matt was a
senior researcher within HP's Web Security Research Group focusing on
the automated detection of vulnerabilities within web technologies.
During his tenure with HP, he also led the development of several free
tools such as HP's Scrawlr (SQLI) and SWFScan (Flash Static-Analysis).
Prior to HP/SPI Dynamics, Inc., Matt performed research on SQL injection
and automated debugging within the Information Security program at the
Georgia Tech. He has spoken at a variety of security conferences and
events such as Black Hat, RSA, Source and OWASP.