## [Manchester Chapter](Manchester "wikilink") meeting 27th February 2014

**Date:** Thursday 27th February, 2014

**Videos:** The talks were recorded (thanks to Pentest) and can be
viewed on this OWASP Manchester [YouTube
playlist](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLEJXgBpzJ67eylHVLicCDYl6PWVm3oGOr)

**Location:** KPMG

**Sponsors:** This event is sponsored by [KPMG](http://www.kpmg.com) and
[Pentest](http://www.pentest.co.uk/)

**Registration:** Via
[Eventbrite](http://www.eventbrite.co.uk/e/owasp-manchester-chapter-27th-february-2014-tickets-10432208015)

**18:00 Pizza and beer** Get here early or you'll miss out ;)

**18:30 Introduction** Simon Bennetts

**Talk: Hacking Eye-Fi Cards**

Eye-Fi cards ingeniously embed a WiFi transmitter within an SD card.
They are very convenient for transferring pictures from your camera to
your computer. But are there hidden security risks?

**Speaker: Paul Johnston**

Paul is a security consultant and software engineer at Pentest. He has
particular interests in: web application security, static code analysis,
and the design of secure end user environments. He is the lead engineer
on Source Patrol.

**Talk: OWASP Cornucopia**

Microsoft's Escalation of Privilege (EoP) threat modelling card game has
been refreshed into a new version more suitable for common web
applications, and aligned with OWASP advice and guides. "OWASP
Cornucopia - Ecommerce Web Application Edition" will be presented and
used to demonstrate how it can help software architects and developers
identify security requirements from the OWASP Secure Coding Practices -
Quick Reference Guide. He will also provide a brief introduction about
how to contribute ideas and content to OWASP projects, and how to start
a project.

**Speaker: Colin Watson**

Colin is an application security consultant, working for Blackfoot,
based in London. He was a member of the former OWASP Global Industry
Committee, and is currently project leader for the OWASP Codes of
Conduct and OWASP Cornucopia projects, co-leader for the OWASP AppSensor
project, and wrote the Application Logging Cheat sheet. He is now
working on the new AppSensor Guide which is due for publication in 2014.

If you would like to talk at future meetings then please get in touch
via the mailing list or one of the chapter leaders.

Everyone is welcome to join us at our chapter meetings.