**Date:** Monday 8th September 2014

**Location:** [PwC](http://www.pwc.co.uk/)
([@PwC_North](https://twitter.com/PwC_North))

**Sponsors:** [Pentest](http://pentest.co.uk)

**Registration:**
[Eventbrite](https://www.eventbrite.co.uk/e/owasp-manchester-chapter-8th-september-2014-tickets-1825174145)
(mandatory)

This event is kindly hosted by [PwC](http://www.pwc.co.uk/), with
sponsorship for drinks and pizza from [Pentest](http://pentest.co.uk).

Doors will be open from 18:00, with talks kicking off at 18:30. Please
be prompt, as access to the building may be limited after 18:30, and you
may miss out on tasty drinks and pizza\!

**18:30 Introduction**

**18:45 Talk: Manipulation 101 (Social engineering)**

This talk will teach you about social engineering from basic concepts to
real life examples, it will discuss why it's so powerful, relevance to
penetration testing, common targets in a corporate environment and how,
if at all possible it can be prevented - providing a brief, yet fully
scoped introduction to the art of human manipulation.

**Speaker: Craig Fox**

Craig started researching IT Security and programming within his early
teen years and later pursued a career within these fields doing multiple
courses and various relevant jobs. He setup his own software company in
2009 [Dreamwalker Software](http://www.dreamwalker-software.com/) and
had his security tools featured on many infosec websites and Pentest
magazine and has also created the [OWASP URL
Checker](https://www.owasp.org/index.php/OWASP_URL_Checker).

Several months back he joined [Pentest ltd](http://www.pentest.co.uk/)
as a penetration tester which has enabled him to learn a lot and
respectively put his training and experience to practice in live testing
which is incredibly challenging yet fun.

**19:30 Talk: When XML Attacks (XML External Entities)**

**Speaker: Richard Moore**

Richard is CTO of [Westpoint Ltd](http://www.westpoint.ltd.uk), a
security testing company based in Manchester. He has been working in the
security industry for many years providing services to a wide range of
clients including multi-nationals and banks.

**20:15 Discussion about future meetings**

**20:30 Decamp for informal discussion and networking at a nearby pub**

OWASP is a non-commercial volunteer led organization. If you find the
networking, talks or content useful, please consider whether you can
help out in providing facilities, locations, talks or a donation to the
cause. Thanks. If you would like to talk at future meetings, or know
someone who may be interested, then please get in touch via the mailing
list or one of the chapter leaders. If you have any requests or ideas
for topics we would also love to hear from you.