**Thanks for your interest\! All sponsorship slots for BASC 2014 are
full\!**

The OWASP BASC (Boston Application Security Conference) will be a free,
one day, informal conference, aimed at increasing awareness and
knowledge of application security in the greater Boston area. While many
of the presentations will cover state-of-the-art application security
concepts, the BASC is intended to appeal to a wide range of attendees.
Application security professionals, professional software developers,
software quality engineers, computer science students, and security
software vendors will come to the BASC to learn, interact and hopefully
enjoy themselves at the same time. We encourage local students, security
professionals and academics to present papers as a way to gain exposure
and experience in presenting at security conferences. We expect over 200
attendees this year. Publicity will include the OWASP Boston wiki site
(run by OWASP Foundation), OWASP Boston Meetup, OWASP Boston Linkedin
group, OWASP Boston mailing list, Eventbrite and Twitter Sponsorship is
completely independent of and unrelated to speaking slots. OWASP does
not allow distribution of attendee lists, or use of them for anything
other than conference updates. OWASP is a 501c3 not-for-profit worldwide
charitable organization.

Sponsorship dollars go to conference expenses (90% food and 10%
attendee, speaker and volunteer giveaways). Any remaining funds are
split between OWASP International and OWASP Boston.

## Sponsorship Levels

BASC 2014 has three levels of sponsorship: Platinum, Gold and Silver.

Platinum ($1000, max of 5) and Gold ($800, max of 5) both provide a 6
foot table in the main area at the conference with access to power. In
addition the digital and printed exposures below are included for both
Platinum and Gold

  - logo placement on the conference web site (the BASC 2014 site will
    be permanent and have links to the presentations, podcasts, and
    images from the conference)
  - logo placement on the conference program provided to each attendee
  - lunch, breakfast and two drink tickets for each sponsor exhibitor

Platinum sponsorship also provides:

  - large logo placement on the top of the main page of the conference
    web site
  - large logo placement at the top of and in the conference program
    provided to each attendee,
  - logo placement at 1 of the following locations
      - breakfast
      - lunch
      - beer / wine social hour
      - front of one session room (there are 2 session rooms)

Gold sponsorship ($800) provides:

  - logo placement on the top of the main page of the conference web
    site,
  - logo placement at the top of and in the conference program provided
    to each attendee,

Silver sponsorship ($500) provides the digital and printed impacts
below:

  - logo placement on the conference web site (the site will be
    permanent and have links to the presentations, podcasts, and images
    from the conference)
  - logo placement on the conference program provided to each attendee

Silver is $500.

Gold is $800.

Platinum is $1000.

~~To pay by credit card, [register
here](https://myowasp.force.com/MN4__FundraisingCampaignDonation?id=a2xU0000000N72yIAC).~~
**All sponsorship slots for BASC 2014 are full\!**