### Collin Mulliner

**Northeastern University**
Collin Mulliner is a postdoctoral researcher in the Systems Security Lab
at Northeastern University. Collin's main interest is the security and
privacy of mobile and embedded systems with an emphasis on mobile and
smart phones. Since 1997 Collin worked on all kinds of mobile devices
and touched most of the mobile platforms for either software development
or security work. Collin received a Ph.D. from the Technische
Universitaet Berlin in 2011, and a M.S. and B.S. in computer science
from UC Santa Barbara and FH-Darmstadt, respectively. Collin has a broad
interest in systems security that is somehow connected to mobile devices
and cellular infrastructure. He has a specific interest in vulnerability
analysis and offensive security but recently switched his focus to the
defensive side to work on mitigations and countermeasures.

### Dinesh Shetty

**Security Innovation**
Dinesh is a Security Engineer and Trainer for Security Innovation. He is
an accomplished author and speaker, and his research has been published
in numerous international security magazines and websites. Dinesh is a
Hall of Fame member of Apple, Adobe, and Barracuda Networks for his
identification and responsible disclosure of critical security
vulnerabilities in their products, web sites, and web services. He has
spoken and taken trainings at leading National and International
conferences like Boston Security Meetup Conference, ClubHack, OWASP
AsiaPac - Sydney, National Institute of Bank Management – India, Quest
Knowledge center and multiple organizations among others. Dinesh also
holds a number of professional IT and security certifications.

### EMC Product Security Response Center

**EMC**
EMC PSRC is responsible for responding and managing security
vulnerabilities reported in EMC/RSA products.

### George Ehrhorn

**MathWorks**
George Ehrhorn is the IT Security Manager for MathWorks, a leading
developer of mathematical computing software for engineers and
scientists. George is responsible for the IT Security program at
MathWorks including infrastructure security, risk assessment, and web
application security. Prior to MathWorks George worked in IT Audit and
Security functions at SunGard Data Systems, Ellucian, and Wayfair.com.
Some of the nerdiest things about George are that he plays competitive
bridge and that he was president of the math club in college. Twice.

### Jack Mannino and Geller Bedoya

**nVisium**
Jack is the CEO at nVisium and loves solving problems in the field of
application security. With experience building, breaking, and securing
software, he founded nVisium to invent new and more efficient ways of
protecting software. Jack is a huge fan of contributing to open source
projects, and leads the OWASP Northern Virginia chapter. In his spare
time, he loves to kick around new frameworks and technologies,
especially things that run Android and code written in Scala. He’s also
an optimistic New York Mets fan, although that optimism slowly fades
away every summer.

Geller Bedoya is a senior application security at nVisium. Geller
graduated from Georgia Tech with a degree in Electrical Engineering. As
a undergraduate student Geller tackled a range of security challenges
from memory forensics to botnet research. After graduation, he promptly
put his security knowledge to work at a financial brokerage where he
aided in design and implementation of security throughout the SDLC. He
performs security code reviews and application security testing of
products. Outside the office, he finds peace of mind by cycling and
running.

### Jared DeMott

![DrJared.jpg](DrJared.jpg "DrJared.jpg") Dr. Jared DeMott is a seasoned
security researcher, and has spoken at conferences such as DerbyCon,
BlackHat, Defcon, ToorCon, Shakacon, DakotaCon, CarolinaCon, ThotCon,
GRRCon, and Bsides\*. Past notable research relates to stopping a trendy
hacker exploit technique (known as ROP), by placing as a finalist in
Microsoft’s BlueHat prize contest, and by more recently showing how to
bypass Microsoft’s EMET protection tool.

Jared is active in the security community by teaching his Application
Security course, and has co-authored the book – Fuzzing for Software
Security Testing and Quality Assurance. DeMott has been on three winning
Defcon CTF teams, and has the black badges to prove it. He has been an
invited lecturer at prestigious institutions such as the United States
Military Academy, and previously worked for the National Security
Agency. DeMott holds a PhD from Michigan State University.

### Jeff Williams

**Contrast Security**
Jeff Williams is the founder and CTO of [Contrast
Security](http://contrastsecurity.com), bringing the power of
instrumentation and real time analytics to secure your application
portfolio. Previously, Jeff was a founder and CEO of [Aspect
Security](http://aspectsecurity.com). He also served as Global Chairman
of the OWASP Foundation where he created many open-source standards,
tools, libraries, and guidelines – including the OWASP Top Ten, WebGoat,
ESAPI, XSS CheatSheet, ASVS and more. Jeff welcomes hearing from you and
may be reached directly at <jeff.williams@contrastsecurity.com>.

### Josh Corman

**Sonatype**
Joshua Corman is the Chief Technology Officer for Sonatype. Previously,
Corman served as a security researcher and strategist at Akamai
Technologies, The 451 Group, and IBM Internet Security Systems. A
respected innovator, he co-founded Rugged Software and IamTheCavalry to
encourage new security approaches in response to the world’s increasing
dependence on digital infrastructure. Josh's unique approach to security
in the context of human factors, adversary motivations and social impact
has helped position him as one of the most trusted names in security. He
is also an adjunct faculty for Carnegie Mellon’s Heinze College, IANS
Research, and a Fellow at the Ponemon Institute.

Josh received his bachelor's degree in philosophy, graduating summa cum
laude, from the University of New Hampshire.

### Anson Gomes and Jeremy Spencer

**iSEC Partners**
Anson Gomes is a security researcher and consultant at iSEC Partners. He
specializes in web applications and web services security, network
security, mobile application security, and architecture reviews. He has
led numerous assessments for applications written in languages such as
Java, .NET, PHP, and Objective C. In his spare time, Anson spends his
time researching cloud systems, custom protocols, and embedded devices.
He is passionate about red teaming and social engineering. Anson has
also given multiple presentations both locally at NYC and at major
conferences such as Black Hat and OWASP AppSec USA. He lives in New York
City.

Jeremy Spencer is a Security Consultant at iSEC Partners, an information
security consulting firm that specializes in application, network, and
mobile security. He has conducted multiple web, mobile, and network
penetration tests and has successfully reported vulnerabilities in
applications written in languages such as Java, PHP, Python, and Ruby.

Jeremy graduated from Columbia University's School of Engineering and
Applied Science in 2013 with a B.S. in Computer Science. At Columbia,
Jeremy engaged in computer system software development within operating
systems, compilers, and networking stack. Prior to iSEC, Jeremy held an
internship at Goldman Sachs where he did security related software
development.

### Michael Weissbacher

**Northeastern University**
Michael Weissbacher is a PhD student and Research Assistant at the
SecLab of Northeastern University. His research interests are focused on
the security of web applications on both client and server side. Michael
plays CTFs with Shellphish.

### Patrick Laverty

**Akamai**
Patrick is a member of the Akamai Technologies Customer Security
Incident Response Team (CSIRT) in Cambridge where he helps detect and
thwart hackers from some of the biggest and most well-known web sites in
the world. He organizes the monthly meetings for the OWASP Rhode Island
chapter. In his spare time, he's working on a wicked hahd slap shot for
his hockey team.

### Sagar Dongre

**Cigital**
Sagar Dongre is Senior Consultant with Cigital. At Cigital, he is one of
the leaders in the static analysis practice within the company. He
consults for many of Cigital’s clients on static analysis topics such as
enterprise-wide code review processes and secure software development
lifecycle (SSDLC).

### Steve Markey

**nControl**
Steve Markey is the principal of nControl, a consulting firm based in
Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, USA. He is also an adjunct professor, a
published author, and a principal speaker at a number of global
conferences. Markey holds multiple certifications and degrees, and has
more than 14 years of experience in the technology sector. He frequently
presents on information security, information privacy, cloud computing,
project management, e-discovery, and information governance.

### Walt Williams

**Lattice Engines**
Walt Williams, CISSP®, SSCP®, CEH, CPT has served as an infrastructure
and security architect at firms as diverse as GTE Internetworking, State
Street Corp, Teradyne, The Commerce Group, and EMC. He has since moved
to security management, where he now manages security at Lattice
Engines. He is an outspoken proponent of design before build, an
advocate of frameworks and standards, and has spoken at Security B-Sides
on risk management as the cornerstone of a security architecture.

Mr. Williams' articles on security and service oriented architecture
have appeared in the Information Security Management Handbook, and is
the author of Security for Service Oriented Architecture by CRC press,
2014. He sits on the board of directors for the New England ISSA chapter
and is a member of the program committee for Metricon. He has a master’s
degree in Anthropology from Hunter College.