__NOTOC__

## Welcome

This is the homepage for the 2014 Boston Application Security Conference
(BASC). This free conference will take place on Saturday, October
18<sup>th</sup> at the Microsoft Cambridge Sales Office, One Cambridge
Center, Cambridge, MA 02142. ***Note the new location, down the street
from previous years' conferences.***

The BASC will be a free, one day, informal conference, aimed at
increasing awareness and knowledge of application security in the
greater Boston area. While many of the presentations will cover
state-of-the-art application security concepts, the BASC is intended to
appeal to a wide-array of attendees. Application security professionals,
professional software developers, software quality engineers, computer
science students, and security software vendors should be able to come
to the BASC, learn, and hopefully enjoy themselves at the same time.

![DrJared.jpg](DrJared.jpg "DrJared.jpg") **AppSec: How It Fits into
Digital Security**

Securing code is important. But history has shown us that we can never
be certain that our code is 100% perfect. This becomes particularly true
in rapidly evolving environments. As an industry we need to take a
broader look. What security features are provided by the hardware, OS,
language, compiler, and even application type? Join us bright and early
as Dr. DeMott kicks off the 2014 Boston Application Security Conference
with a Keynote you won’t forget.

Dr. Jared DeMott is a seasoned security researcher, and has spoken at
conferences such as DerbyCon, BlackHat, Defcon, ToorCon, Shakacon,
DakotaCon, CarolinaCon, ThotCon, GRRCon, and Bsides\*. Past notable
research relates to stopping a trendy hacker exploit technique (known as
ROP), by placing as a finalist in Microsoft’s BlueHat prize contest, and
by more recently showing how to bypass Microsoft’s EMET protection tool.

Jared is active in the security community by teaching his Application
Security course, and has co-authored the book – Fuzzing for Software
Security Testing and Quality Assurance. DeMott has been on three winning
Defcon CTF teams, and has the black badges to prove it. He has been an
invited lecturer at prestigious institutions such as the United States
Military Academy, and previously worked for the National Security
Agency. DeMott holds a PhD from Michigan State University.

  - Date: Saturday, October 18<sup>th</sup>, 2014
  - Location: [Microsoft Cambridge Sales
    Office](http://www.microsoft.com/about/companyinformation/usaoffices/northeast/en/us/Cambridge.aspx)
    ***Note the new location, down the street from previous years'
    conferences.***
  - Directions: [Microsoft Cambridge Sales Office
    Directions](http://binged.it/OIklru)

<!-- end list -->

  - [Agenda](2014_BASC_Agenda "wikilink")
  - [Speakers](2014_BASC_Speakers "wikilink")
  - [Presentations](2014_BASC_Presentations "wikilink")
  - LinkedIn
    [Group](https://www.linkedin.com/groups/Boston-Application-Security-Conference-BASC-4631647)
  - Twitter: Follow [@BASConf](http://twitter.com/#!/BASConf) HashTag:
    \#basc2014

Admission to the BASC is free but
[registration](http://basc2014.eventbrite.com/)is required for
breakfast, lunch, and the evening social time. We will do everything
possible to accommodate late registrants but the facility and food are
limited. [Online registration](http://basc2014.eventbrite.com/) is now
open and you are encouraged to register early.