### Rob Cheyne

**CEO, Big Brain Security, Executive Director, SOURCE Conference**
![RobCheyne.jpg](RobCheyne.jpg "RobCheyne.jpg")Rob Cheyne is a highly
regarded technologist, security expert, trainer, and serial
entrepreneur.

He has over 25 years of experience in the information technology field
and has been working in information security since 1998. Rob has led
information security training classes for over 25,000 people across many
industry-leading global organizations, and consults regularly with
Fortune 500 clients.

Rob is the founder and CEO of Big Brain Security and the Executive
Director of the SOURCE conferences. Previously, Rob was the co-founder
and CEO of Safelight, a leading provider of information security
education programs that was acquired by Security Innovation in July
2014.

He was also an early employee of @stake, a well-known pioneer in
information security consulting. Rob was the author of LC4, a version of
the award-winning L0phtCrack password auditing tool, and he also worked
on the code scanning technology that was eventually spun off as
Veracode.

Rob regularly speaks at security and training conferences, and
frequently presents to the local chapters of various security
organizations.

### Matt Cheung

**Veracode**
Matt Cheung is a Quality Assurance Engineer for the static analysis
engine at Veracode. His first practical introduction to modern
cryptography was from an internship during grad school where he worked
on additively homomorphic encryption and secure multiparty computation.
In the years since, he has developed an interest in how cryptography
does and doesn't work. Matt has Masters degrees in mathematics and
computer science.

### Ray DeMeo

**Virsec Systems**
Ray DeMeo is Co-Founder and Chief Operating Officer at Virsec.  With
more than twenty years of operations and global business development
experience, Ray has held key roles in the successful growth and
transition of multiple tech. startups, including Giganet, acquired by
Emulex and EqualLogic, acquired by Dell. He has led teams in roles of
responsibility ranging from operations management to global sales and
CEO. Ray holds a bachelor's degree in mechanical engineering and a
computer science minor from Norwich University, and a master's degree in
business management from Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute.

### Luke Donoho

Luke Donoho is a security professional with over 15 years of security
expertise within the United States. He holds a Bachelor's Degree in
Computer Science from Illinois State University, and a Master's Degree
in Computer Science from Boston University. He is experienced in the
EDA, Healthcare, and Financial verticals. In his current role he
provides security consulting to internal technology teams as well as
developing and running the organization's security development life
cycle program.

Luke’s technical background is in full stack Microsoft technologies,
code analysis, vulnerability assessments, and security engineering. His
career has had him engaged in various security roles such as: Enterprise
Security Architect, Web Systems Engineer, Hosting Manager, and IT
Security Engineer. Luke holds CSSLP and CEH certifications. He is also
passionate about drones, artificial intelligence, .NET development,
Azure, machine learning, threat modeling, and security education.

### Casey Dunham

**GuidePoint Security**
Casey Dunham is a Security Consultant in the Application Security
practice at GuidePoint Security. Casey has over 10 years experience in
IT, most of which have been focused on application development. Casey
has worked in the industrial control and finance industries, as well as
in academia. Casey has a bachelor’s degree from the University of
Southern Maine in Computer Science and is currently working on the
Offensive Security Certified Professional certification and many
interests include OSINT, reverse engineering and exploit development.

### Satya Gupta

**Virsec Systems**
Satya Gupta is the CTO and Founder of Virsec Systems, Inc. Satya has
over 25 years of experience in the security, embedded systems,
networking, and telecom sectors. His experience spans large companies as
well as startups ranging from 3COM, Nortel, Narad Networks, Ellacoya
Networks. He has six issued patents and five in process in the security
and embedded firmware space. Several products designed by Satya are
deployed to hundreds of thousands of users. Satya is a graduate of the
Indian Institute of Technology, and University of Massachusetts.

### Brian Heemsoth

**Aetna**
Brian Heemsoth is an experienced Information Security Professional. He
currently leads Aetna's Mobile Security & Software Security Groups, and
is responsible for stewarding Aetna's Software & Mobile Security
Programs, and for continually evolving the resources and controls
applied to Aetna's web, mobile, and other software platforms. Prior to
joining the Software Security Group, Brian worked as a Security Engineer
supporting encryption & key management technologies, Identify & Access
Management platforms, and other security technologies. Brian is a Threat
Lecturer for the National Health ISAC, and is active within the
Financial Services ISAC, and BSIMM Community.

### Robert Hurlbut

**Robert Hurlbut Consulting Services**
Robert Hurlbut is an independent software security consultant,
architect, developer, and trainer through Robert Hurlbut Consulting
Services. Robert is a Microsoft MVP for Developer Security and holds the
(ISC)<sup>2</sup> CSSLP certification. Robert has over 20+ years of
industry experience in secure coding, software architecture, and
software development and has served at times as a project manager, chief
architect, and director of software development for several clients.
Robert blogs at roberthurlbut.com/blog and shares links and other
information on Twitter at @RobertHurlbut.

### Amin Kharraz

**Northeastern University and Seclab Boston**
Amin Kharraz is a researcher at Northeastern University and Seclab
Boston. His primary area of research lies on low-level system security.
This encompasses program analysis, vulnerability detection and system
hardening. His current research is to develop malware detection tools to
detect zero-day malware attacks.

### Kellen Kleinfelter

**Akamai Technologies**
Kellen is a Specialist with Akamai's Security Operations Center. He
mitigates volumetric and application attacks on some of the busiest
sites on the web. Additionally he handles analysis, incident response,
custom solutions, and tuning. Outside of that he enjoys abusing in-game
mechanics for NES game speed-running.

### Tony Martin

Tony Martin is a security architect at Fortune 100 networking company
and is part of the corporate, secure development lifecycle team (SDLC).
He has previously worked at a defense contractor conducting
software-defined radio security research and was the system architect at
a point of sale, identity fraud prevention company. He has an undergrad,
CS degree from UMaine and a Master’s in CS with a concentration in
security from BU. Tony volunteers many places including DefCon’s Packet
Hacking / Wall of Sheep Village.

### Matt Morency

**Pegasystems**
Matt believes that he is a boring person who is fortunate enough to be
surrounded by interesting people.

### Biju Nair

**asquareb**
Biju Nair is a software engineer focused on developing high performance
and scalable systems. He has worked on delivering large enterprise
applications and software products on multiple platforms. His interest
includes operating systems, distributed systems and DBMS.

### Mike Pittenger

**Black Duck Software**
Mike Pittenger is Black Duck Software's Vice President of Product
Strategy. His 30-year technology and management career includes 15 years
in security. He previously served as Vice President and General Manager
of @stake’s product division. After @stake’s acquisition by Symantec,
Mike led the spin-out of his team to form Veracode. He later served as
Vice President of the product and training division of Cigital. Mike has
consulted independently for several security companies including Bit9,
KoreLogic, Digital Guardian, Verisign, and Beyond Trust.