__FORCETOC__ We would like to thank our speakers for donating their
time and effort to help make this conference successful.

After spending over 10 years as a builder of software systems, and the
next five years on the breaking side of things, I then spent over a
decade teaching information security concepts to over 25,000 people
around the world at leading global organizations.

Over the course of this work, I’ve noticed some interesting patterns
across my body of students and clients.

In most organizations, I have seen have at least one critical area of
the business where basic information security best practices were not
implemented where they should be. In many cases, this is because people
are either not factoring in an accurate representation of infosec risks
into their planning & project life cycles, or they willfully ignore
them.

The reason for this often boils down to one thing: the overall level of
security awareness in most places is pretty low, even amongst
developers, and even in organizations where you would think it should be
a lot higher. Amongst business and management groups, it can be
practically non-existent because security is still often assumed to be
the purview of the security group, the infrastructure team, or the
developers.

In such an environment, business requirements often take precedence over
security requirements, even when the security requirements are truly
protecting the best interests of the business.

I have seen that many people within a typical organization:

  - have little to no understanding of the actual risks they face.
  - have no idea how to balance rational security options against
    business requirements to mitigate those risks.
  - think that security is somebody else’s job, and ignore it
    accordingly.
  - believe that internal systems are somehow safe from attack
  - think that the data breach will never happen to them

I have come to believe strongly that this is as much as much our failure
to communicate and influence information security initiatives as it is
the business' failure to understand. Given the shortage of infosec
professionals in the marketplace, I believe the only way we can scale
ourselves is to communicate what we know more effectively.

In short, we need to learn how to communicate what we know much, much
better than we are doing today.

Security is arguably much more of a people problem than a technology
problem, and the ability to communicate rational security wisdom to
people outside of the “InfoSec echo chamber” is a highly underrated
skill. There are many areas of security where we have solid best
practices, but they aren’t followed because the people who need to hear
the message the most simply never receive it.

Please join me in this frank & interactive discussion of what it means
to communicate information security outside of our echo chamber, and
discuss some specific strategies for doing so.

When presenting, teaching, or leading a discussion on technical topics,
a big part of the secret to success is the ability to clearly explain
technical information, and the impact it has on business risks. For some
this comes more naturally than others, but this is absolutely a
learnable skill.

In the time I’ve been teaching, I have had to come up with many ways of
explaining information security concepts (both technical and
non-technical) to vastly different audiences in a way that everyone gets
it. In some cases, I’ve even been tasked with teaching security to
hostile audiences, and had to figure out ways to get them to care.

One of the most important skills you can develop is the ability to
explain something technical in a way that everyone can follow along,
while simultaneously persuading your audience to care what you are
talking about and leave them wanting more.

The formula often boils down to:

  - using specific strategies to keep everyone engaged
  - conveying a story
  - clearly explaining the necessary details, and only the necessary
    details
  - not condescending to the technical folks in the room with overly
    simplistic explanations
  - simultaneously not leaving the less technical (or non-technical)
    folks in the room behind

This workshop session will provide you with practical tips and tricks
for doing exactly this, and also provide some opportunities for
practice. Practice makes perfect\!

Please join Rob in this highly interactive workshop for a deeper dive
down the security communication rabbit hole and experience a new way of
communicating.

### Resume Room

**Roy Wattanasin
**Jennifer Stitt, Codiscope

"Resume Room" (2-hour session) BASC 2015's inaugural session

Pre-requisite: Hard-copy resume

Looking to switch careers or need a resume makeover? Come to this room
to have security practitioners review your resume and give you honest
feedback. Learn some new strategies along the way to use them. Bring
your questions and get answers\!

A discussion of current trend of account checking attacks and the tools
used to execute them. Data breaches have given attackers a large list of
usernames and passwords that are often valid on many other unrelated
sites. Cybercriminals use botnets in an attempt to gain access to
rewards points and financial information in automated fashion. Attackers
span from professionals running custom tools hosted worldwide to
advanced penetration testers who can quickly find and access an open
back door. In this talk, we will look at the attack signatures and show
some keys for detection and mitigation of the attacks.

Assessing the security of web applications is similar to penetration
testing but also has certain key differences. In this presentation we
will discuss what some of those similarities and differences are based
on both academic research and real-world experience. Based on these
similarities and differences, we will present the penetration testing
practices we have found can be leveraged, the practices that need to be
modified, and the practices that should be discard when conducting web
application security assessments.

Buffer Error attacks are one of the most insidious and difficult to
thwart exploits that exist in today’s modern IT security infrastructure.
Most enterprise IT professionals have little understanding of how they
work and why existing options generally fail in stopping them. While
user input-based attacks are well understood and solutions exist and are
emerging for them, buffer error attacks remain the bane of application
security professionals everywhere.

This presentation will focus on dissecting how buffer error attacks
work, why they succeed through existing types of security products and
an entirely new way of thinking regarding how to stop them. Using
examples from Virsec’s research labs, we will discuss this critical area
of the security and new advancements, as well as demonstrate a buffer
error attack that is thwarted using this new approach.

Cryptography is often seen as a security panacea, but the devil is in
the details. While the standard algorithms are thought to be secure, how
they are used or implemented can greatly affect their security. In this
talk, I will start with the basic vocabulary of cryptography and then
move on to some of the most common mistakes made in cryptography in
recent years.

In this talk, we present the results of a long-term study of ransomware
attacks that have been observed in the wild. We also provide a holistic
view on how ransomware attacks have evolved during this period by
analysing thousands of samples that belong to different ransomware
families. In this talk, we explain why defending against ransomware
attacks is not as complex as it has been previously reported. For
example, we show that by monitoring abnormal file system activity, it is
possible to design a practical defense system that could stop a large
number of ransomware attacks, even those using sophisticated encryption
capabilities. A close examination on the file system activities of
multiple ransomware samples suggests that by looking at I/O requests and
protecting Master File Table (MFT) in the NTFS file system, it is
possible to detect and prevent a significant number of zero-day
ransomware attacks. The findings contradict some security community
discussions that suggest the impossibility of detecting or stopping
these types of attacks due to the use of sophisticated, destructive
techniques.

<div style="margin-left: 10px;">

**[Slides](https://roberthurlbut.com/Resources/2015/BASC/Hurlbut_OWASP_BASC2015_ThreatModeling_10032015.pdf)**

</div>

Threat modeling is a way of thinking about what could go wrong and how
to prevent it. Instinctively, we all think this way in regards to our
own personal security and safety. When it comes to building software,
some software shops either skip the important step of threat modeling in
secure software design or, they have tried threat modeling before but
haven't quite figured out how to connect the threat models to real world
software development and its priorities. In this session, you will learn
practical strategies in using threat modeling in secure software design
and how to apply risk management in dealing with the threats.

Static analysis, dynamic analysis, and other testing tools are all
essential weapons against adversaries. But for the 78% of companies
worldwide that use open source software in their application development
these tools are ineffective in identifying and mitigating open source
security risks across their application portfolios. This presentation
will cover:

  - The value of static and dynamic tools, and where they best fit in
    the Secure Development Lifecycle
  - Why these tools are not useful in identifying known vulnerabilities
    in open source components
  - Controls development and security professionals can deploy to
    select, detect, manage and monitor open source for existing and
    newly disclosed vulnerabilities.

Home Network Attached Storage devices (NAS) are gaining in popularity
because of the simplicity they offer to manage ever-growing amounts of
personal data. The device’s functionality is extending beyond a data
store, adding functionality to become the central content management
system, multimedia center, network management point and even automation
hub for the home and small business. The devices offer accessibility to
local and remote users as well as to untrusted users via data shares.
These capabilities expose all stored data and the device itself to
outside/remote attackers. This talk will demonstrate an attack named
NEON TOOL; by leveraging multiple vulnerabilities, it allows a remote
attacker to gain root access on a popular home NAS device. It examines
the problems that XSS, in conjunction with other weaknesses, can create,
addresses how these vulnerabilities were uncovered, possible mitigations
and how to work responsibly with the vendor to ensure a timely
resolution.

There are no shortage of products on the market today that promise a
"golden ticket" solution to software/mobile security across the
enterprise. However, the reality is that while the market is quite
saturated, a certain level of finesse is required to effectively scale a
proper application security program across large architecture &
development organizations, and empower development teams to integrate
the correct app sec resources into their existing development lifecycle
to assure the timely identification and remediation of flaws.

Topics to be covered:

  - Scaling Threat Modeling / reducing Threat Modeling Overhead
  - Application Risk Classification
  - Security Training/Developer Empowerment/Satellite Development
  - Effective Static Analysis
  - Scaling Automated Application Assessment
  - Open Source Component Management
  - Penetration Testing
  - Effective use of WAF's and other Production Controls
  - Financial & Productivity Gains of Efficient AppSec Program
    Implementation

With more enterprises embracing Hadoop ecosystem to store, manage and
process large volume of data, securing it is vital. In this talk we will
go over the fundamentals of Hadoop ecosystem and how it can be secured
as it stands today.

This presentation explores the connections between threat modeling the
Future of Humanity Institute’s (FHI) “Global Catastrophic Risks” and
software threat modeling concepts, including the OWASP guide to Threat
Risk Modeling. The impact to civilization from a technology perspective
hinges on ensuring that proper risk is considered when developing
technologies that the FHI has identified as catastrophic risks. While
several risks are identified in by this institute, technological areas
of focus are artificial intelligence and nanotechnology. An overview of
each of these technology areas will be provided, as well as a deep dive
into their associated risk. As these technologies continue to gain
momentum, a risk assessment of their activities and impacts require a
closer level of review and scrutiny as each implementation is evaluated.
The most consistent finding in reviewing the various technologies is
that an open framework of technological guidelines and threat models
must be reviewed, applied, and revised by many professional security
practitioners to assist in securing the long term fruition of our
society and its inevitable technological reliance.

Web applications often sit on the open internet for a long time before
flaws are fixed. This presents an opportunity for crawlers to index the
site, sometimes including exceptions , and other information that should
not be exposed. When conducting an application assessment, it is often
worthwhile to dig into what the search engines have already indexed.
Looking at the history of the site at various dates can also lead to
hidden or forgotten pages that may aid in an attack.

In this talk, I present a few tools and techniques I use to search out
this forgotten information and how it can be used to aid in an
application assessment.