__NOTOC__

## Welcome

This is the homepage for the 2015 Boston Application Security Conference
(BASC). This free conference will take place on Saturday, October
3<sup>rd</sup> at [Microsoft New England Research and Development Center
(NERD)](http://microsoftcambridge.com/Default.aspx). ***Note the
location is different from last year.***

The BASC will be a free, one day, informal conference, aimed at
increasing awareness and knowledge of application security in the
greater Boston area. While many of the presentations will cover
state-of-the-art application security concepts, the BASC is intended to
appeal to a wide-array of attendees. Application security professionals,
professional software developers, software quality engineers, computer
science students, and security software vendors should be able to come
to the BASC, learn, and hopefully enjoy themselves at the same time.

\--

## Call for Papers

The [Call For Papers](BASC_2015_Call_For_Papers "wikilink") is still
open but will close soon\!

\--\>

**"How I Teach Security"**

Rob Cheyne, CEO, Big Brain Security, Executive Director, SOURCE
Conference

![RobCheyne.jpg](RobCheyne.jpg "RobCheyne.jpg")After spending over 10
years as a builder of software systems, and the next five years on the
breaking side of things, I then spent over a decade teaching information
security concepts to over 25,000 people around the world at leading
global organizations.

Over the course of this work, I’ve noticed some interesting patterns
across my body of students and clients.

In most organizations, I have seen have at least one critical area of
the business where basic information security best practices were not
implemented where they should be. In many cases, this is because people
are either not factoring in an accurate representation of infosec risks
into their planning & project life cycles, or they willfully ignore
them.

The reason for this often boils down to one thing: the overall level of
security awareness in most places is pretty low, even amongst
developers, and even in organizations where you would think it should be
a lot higher. Amongst business and management groups, it can be
practically non-existent because security is still often assumed to be
the purview of the security group, the infrastructure team, or the
developers.

In such an environment, business requirements often take precedence over
security requirements, even when the security requirements are truly
protecting the best interests of the business.

I have seen that many people within a typical organization:

  - have little to no understanding of the actual risks they face.
  - have no idea how to balance rational security options against
    business requirements to mitigate those risks.
  - think that security is somebody else’s job, and ignore it
    accordingly.
  - believe that internal systems are somehow safe from attack
  - think that the data breach will never happen to them

I have come to believe strongly that this is as much as much our failure
to communicate and influence information security initiatives as it is
the business' failure to understand. Given the shortage of infosec
professionals in the marketplace, I believe the only way we can scale
ourselves is to communicate what we know more effectively.

In short, we need to learn how to communicate what we know much, much
better than we are doing today.

Security is arguably much more of a people problem than a technology
problem, and the ability to communicate rational security wisdom to
people outside of the “InfoSec echo chamber” is a highly underrated
skill. There are many areas of security where we have solid best
practices, but they aren’t followed because the people who need to hear
the message the most simply never receive it.

Please join me in this frank & interactive discussion of what it means
to communicate information security outside of our echo chamber, and
discuss some specific strategies for doing so.

  - Date: Saturday, October 3<sup>rd</sup>, 2015
  - Location: [NERD](http://microsoftcambridge.com/Default.aspx)
  - Directions: [NERD's
    website](http://microsoftcambridge.com/About/Directions/tabid/89/Default.aspx)
    or [Google
    Maps](http://maps.google.com/places/us/ma/cambridge/memorial-dr/1/-microsoft-new-england-research-and-development-center?hl=en&gl=us)
  - [Agenda](2015_BASC_Agenda "wikilink")
  - [Speakers](2015_BASC_Speakers "wikilink")
  - [Presentations](2015_BASC_Presentations "wikilink")
  - [InfoSec Communication
    Workshop](2015_BASC_InfoSec_Communication_Workshop "wikilink")
  - LinkedIn
    [Group](https://www.linkedin.com/groups/Boston-Application-Security-Conference-BASC-4631647)
  - Twitter: Follow [@BASConf](http://twitter.com/#!/BASConf) HashTag:
    \#basc2015
  - [Sponsorship Kit](Media:BASCSponsorship2015.docx "wikilink")

Admission to the BASC is free but
[registration](http://www.eventbrite.com/e/boston-application-security-conference-basc-2015-tickets-1783483447)
is required for breakfast, lunch, and the evening social time. We will
do everything possible to accommodate late registrants but the facility
and food are limited. [Online
registration](http://www.eventbrite.com/e/boston-application-security-conference-basc-2015-tickets-1783483447)
is now open and you are encouraged to register early.