The first ever Bristol chapter meeting will be held on the 2nd July,
2015 . Kindly hosted and sponsored by KPMG, which means refreshments,
beer and pizza \!\!\!. KPMG office is locate at:

100 Temple Street Bristol BS1 6AG

A map to the KPMG office is located here
<http://www.kpmg.com/UK/en/about/MapOfOfficesAndLinks/PublishingImages/bristol-office-locator.pdf>

6:00pm for a 6:30pm start. Expected finish time approx 9:00pm... you
will need to RSVP via eventbrite for this
<https://www.eventbrite.com/e/owasp-bristol-chapter-meeting-july-tickets-17529336718>.
When you apply for a ticket pleas ensure you provide a full name per
ticket as this will be needed to enter KPMG office

**Evenings talks and speakers**

**Konrads Smelkovs** @truekonrads @kpmguk Cyber Team

**Bio** Konrads is an experienced, fast thinking and performing IT
consultant with 12 years IT experience. Konrads joined KPMG in 2007,
where has been delivering information security (audit, assurance,
testing) and IT advisory related engagements. Initially based in the
Baltics, he is now in the London office where he is a member of our
Information Protection and Business Resilience (IPBR) team where he is
currently focusing on penetration testing and incident response. **JA**
- He's also a top notch bloke :)

**Talk** Microsoft Windows Communication Foundation is a popular suite
of protocols for remote method invocation using .NET frameworks. Most
security research has focused on using the NetHTTP protocol – binary
soap over HTTP, but have sidestepped the use of tcp.net protocol used
commonly in modern rich client applications, that is until today\! This
talk will explain how to find net.tcp protocol use on the network,
explain how to identify what methods are available for invocation and
sketch a practical way of pentesting rich applications written using
net.tcp protocol.

**Daniel Cuthbert** @dcuthbert @sensepost

**Bio** Well, I doubt I have to introduce Daniel to anyone in our
industry especially anyone who knows their AppSec. Over a decade of
experience of application security and currently COO of @sensepost When
he's not being COO he also has a keen eye and a great talent for
photography... He truly is "gifted".. and that's not all folks...
because this man, no this great man, is a major force and influence and
supporter and above all contributor to OWASP itself. **HE** is the lead
on the amazing project that is the OWASP ASVS. This document is for me
the AppSec Bible which probably makes Daniel the OWASP Appsec
Messiah..... Amen..... Amen.....

**Talk** Herding Cats: How the OWASP ASVS will make your life sexier and
more fulfilling. **JA** if you have not seen or know what the ASVS is
then you are missing out on something that can be used in multiple ways
for Application Security....

**Paco Hope** @pacohope @Cigital

**Bio** Paco Hope is a security consultant at Cigital who has helped
software firms secure their software for nearly 15 years in a variety of
industries like financial services, retail, and embedded systems. He is
the author of two books on security, the most recent being the Web
Security Testing Cookbook. He helps (ISC)² develop the Certified Secure
Software Lifecycle Professional (CSSLP) and CISSP certifications. His
passion is empowering everyone in the software lifecycle—developers,
testers, analysts—to make meaningful contributions to the securing of
software. **JA** Paco is one of those speakers that has the capability
to talk about a highly technical subject in a way that everyone gets. At
a Con if his name is on the speakers list I always head that way,
whatever the subject. Hes the only person I've heard talk about random
number generators and kept the entire audience interest all the way
through.. that takes some doing \!\!

**Talk** Intro to the OWASP Mobile Top Ten

OWASP’s Mobile Top Ten (MTT) Risks project has been around for a few
years and has changed shape several times during those years. In 2015
we’re remaking it with reference data from several security
consultancies. Paco Hope is helping to shape the 2015 version of the MTT
and will share where it has been, where it is, and where it’s going.
More info is available at:
<https://www.owasp.org/index.php/Projects/OWASP_Mobile_Security_Project_-_Top_Ten_Mobile_Risks>