**Date**: Thursday, 19th November 2015, 19:00

**Location**: KPMG - 100 Temple Street, Bristol, BS1 6AG A map to the
KPMG office is located here
<http://www.kpmg.com/UK/en/about/MapOfOfficesAndLinks/PublishingImages/bristol-office-locator.pdf>

**Registration**: Please RSVP on
<http://www.meetup.com/OWASP-Bristol/events/226348152/>

**Event sponsors**: KPMG

**Agenda**:

  - 7:00pm - 7:25 pm Social
  - 7:25pm - 7:30 pm OWASP updates / Speakers intro
  - 7:30pm - 8:15 pm Presentation 1: "Devops & Continuous Delivery
    Security"
  - 8:15pm - 9:00 pm Presentation 2: "Dip Your Toes in the Sea of
    Security"
  - 9:00 pm Networking - heading for a beer at The Knights Templar \!

**Presentation 2**: Dip Your Toes in the Sea of Security

**Abstract**: Security is an enormous topic, and it’s really, really
complicated. If you’re not careful, you’ll find yourself vulnerable to
any number of attacks which you definitely don’t want to be on the
receiving end of. This talk will give you just a taster of the vast
array of things there is to know about security in modern web
applications, such as writing secure PHP web applications and securing a
Linux server. Whether you are writing anything beyond a basic brochure
website, or even developing a complicated business web application, this
talk will give you insights to some of the things you need to be aware
of.

**Bio**: James Titcumb is the founder of the UK based PHP Hampshire user
group and the PHP South Coast Conference. He’s also a Zend Certified
Engineer and consultant at Roave. During his downtime, he continues to
run the PHP Hampshire user group and the conference, and keeps up with
active contributions to various open source projects.

**Presentation 1 :** Devops & Continuous Delivery Security

**Abstract**: In this talk Jason will show how security and its normal
practices needs to evolve or become even less irrelevant in a world
where 300 fundamental changes to an application takes place every day.
Jason will then explain how the devops/CD approach can actually be
leveraged to improve security of applications.

**Bio**: Jason has worked in the IT & Cyber Security industry for 18
years. Currently a Security Architect within KPMG’s Cyber consultancy he
has worked with numerous clients looking to move to a more agile
development methodology and enabling secure deployments to the cloud. A
proud OWASP member for the last 7 years and serial OWASP chapter
starter, he is an active member of the security community.

A recent winner of a WASPY award, can be found tweeting useful security
“stuff” at @0wasp – be warned account is used to moan about many
things not security related\!