**Date**: Thursday, 17th March 2016, 19:00

**Location**: Cray - Broad Quay House, Broad Quay, Bristol BS1 4DJ,
Bristol

**Registration**:
<http://www.meetup.com/OWASP-Bristol/events/228380487/>

**Event sponsors**: Cray Supercomputers

**Agenda**:

  - 7:00pm - Social
  - 7:25pm - OWASP updates / Speakers intro
  - 7:30pm - Presentation 1: Dinis Cruz - "New Era of Software with
    modern Application Security"
  - 8:15pm - Presentation 2: Scott Alexander-­Bown - "Android app
    security on a shoestring budget"

**Presentation 1**: New Era of Software with modern Application Security

**Abstract**: This presentation will start with an overview of the
current state of Application Insecurity (with practical examples). This
will make the attendees think twice about what is about to happen to
their applications. The solution is to leverage a new generation of
application security thinking such as: TDD, Docker, Test Automation,
Static Analysis, cleaver Fuzzing, JIRA Risk workflows, Kanban, micro web
services visualization, and ELK. These practices will not only make
applications/software more secure/resilient, but it allow them to be
developed in a much more efficient, cheaper and productive way.

**Bio**: Dinis is focused on creating Application Security teams and
providing Application Security assurance across the SDL (from
development, to operations, to business processes, to board-level
decisions). His focus is in the alignment of the business’s risk
appetite with the reality created by Applications developed internally,
outsourced or purchased. He is also an active Developer and Application
Security Engineer focused on how to develop secure applications. A key
drive is on 'Automating Application Security Knowledge and Workflows'
which is the main concept behind the OWASP O2 Platform.

**Presentation 2**: Android app security on a shoestring budget

**Abstract**: Even with all the time & budget in the world you can't
make a completely bulletproof app, so how do you stand a chance with a
real world app? Real world apps have limited budget, are short on time
and the task priorities are often decided by the security oblivious
client/project managers.

So what can we developers do to increase our app’s security and help
protect our professional reputation? Where should we focus our app
security effort? Isn’t security really difficult? and what gives us the
biggest bang for our buck?

We will answer these questions and show that improving your security
need not be technically challenging or time consuming. Also I’ll
illustrate that it doesn’t necessarily need buy-in from stakeholders.

We’ll be using commercially viable open source libraries to level up
your app’s network verification, tamper protection, device integrity
checks and more\! while keeping in mind a shoestring budget\!

Many of the presented security protection techniques can be applied to
iOS apps too, however the focus and examples will be Android.

**Bio**: Scott is a Lead Android Developer and co-author of the Android
Security Cookbook. Founder of SWmobile, a mobile developer focused
meetup.com group with 650+ members.​ ​Creator of several open source
Android security libraries.​ ​Enjoys​ ​spending time​ ​with his young
family, running, Mexican food, Belgium beer and reading.