**Date**: Thursday, 21st January 2016, 19:00

**Location**: Just-eat.com - Broad Quay House, Broad Quay, Bristol BS1
4DJ, Bristol

**Registration**:
<http://www.meetup.com/OWASP-Bristol/events/227419895/>

**Event sponsors**: Just-eat.com

**Agenda**:

  - 7:00pm - Social
  - 7:25pm - OWASP updates / Speakers intro
  - 7:30pm - Presentation 1: Chris Dare - "Don't Panic - Maintain
    Security in Continuous Deployments"
  - 8:15pm - Presentation 2: Dan Billing - "New Adventures in Security
    Testing"
  - After talks head to "Small Bar" pub

**Presentation 1:** Don't Panic - Maintain Security in Continuous
Deployments

**Abstract**: Continuous deployment may seem intimidating to the
information security professional - there's no way most security teams
have the scale to approve each release. I'll show how you continuous
deployment can be a benefit to security, and how changes to process as
well as tooling can ensure risk is kept at an acceptable level.

**Bio**: Chris Dare is an developer turned application security
specialist at JUST EAT, based in Bristol.

**Presentation 2:** New Adventures in Security Testing

**Abstract**: For me, being a tester is as much about learning new
skills and ways of working as it is creating great products and services
for customers as part of a great development team. After more than ten
years as a tester, and a period where I really didn’t know where my
career was going, I’d like to talk about how security testing has
reinvigorated my love for testing by introducing me to new ideas,
techniques and possibilities. I’d also like to demonstrate how I
approach security testing in my day to day work, making what appears to
be a dark art much more accessible for testers who aren’t penetration
testing experts.

**Bio** : Dan Billing has been a tester for 14 years, working within a
diverse range of development organisations, mostly in the south west of
England. He currently works as a test engineer at New Voice Media, where
most of his time is spent working on the security testing needs of the
business. This includes mentoring, supporting and training members of
the team to use these skills also.

Dan’s love of testing drives me to become an active member of the
testing community, helping to organise local meet-ups and talks in the
Bristol and Bath area.

He has recently spoken at MEWT, (Midlands Exploratory Workshop in
Testing) as well as the Bristol, Brighton and Nottingham tester
gatherings. This summer, Dan worked with BIll Matthews to deliver a
security testing tutorial at Let’s Test and at Nordic Testing Days,
where he also gave his talk “The Testing of Fear”.

He is a facilitator with Weekend Testing Europe, alongside Neil Studd
and Amy Studd. He is also the organiser of the South West Exploratory
Workshop in Testing.

Dan lives in Frome, Somerset with his wife Rae, and cat, Misty.