In the last meeting we've seen how to secure the applications using
Threat Modelling. In this session you will learn how to break them. Come
and see how to hack a Mitsubishi Outlander\!

Agenda:

• 6:30pm - Social

• 6:45pm - OWASP updates / Speakers intro

• Presentation 1: Vitor Jesus - "OT is not IT"

• Presentation 2: Ken Munro - Car Hacking

• After - we go to Small Bar on King street.

**Presentation 1: OT is not IT** Operational Technologies (OT) is an
acronym coined to make the distinction to IT. You see OT in action
whenever you call for an elevator or wait for a green light. Less
visible, they are the heart of automation (Steel, Power, Water,
Automotive, Pharma, etc.). They are also in IoT or Medical devices,for
example, where, amongst other factors, they share the criticality and
real time elements. A 80/20 rule can be applied when comparing to IT.
Whereas IT and OT share 80% of technologies and practices, the remaining
20% renders them unique to the point that a CCNE or a CISSP are not
adequate. Everything changes: vendors, development processes,
regulations & standards, protocols, goals, etc. This talk will go over
the differences.

• Bio: Vitor Jesus works on Networks and Cyber Security with a focus on
OT: SCADA/ICS, Embedded Systems, Internet-of-Things, Secure Software
Development, etc. Having started with a degree in Physics, soon moved to
Electronics and then Networks at well-knonw names such as Philips,
Nokia-Siemens, Alcatel-Lucent and General Electric. A big part of his
career was spent on Universities (University of Aveiro, Portugal, and
Carnegie Mellon, US) lecturing and researhcing Network Architectures. He
holds a PhD and a GIAC GICSP, an Industrial Cyber Security
Certification. He also has Bitcoins and never ceases to be amazed with
its Security tragedies.

**Presentation 2: Car hacking**

The final Eureka moment might seem surprisingly easy, but what does the
A to Z of hacking the Mitsubishi Outlander look like?

This talk will demonstrate how to locate a target vehicle, the initial
MITM attack, PSK cracking, Android app reversing, and then reversing a
binary protocol. It’ll have some previously unreleased research and an
open floor for Q\&A too.

Bio: Ken Munro (Partner & Founder Pen Testers) is a highly acclaimed and
respected security professional who is well known on the speaking
circuit for his engaging and insightful presentations. He has been
working in IT security for over 15 years and writes for various
newspapers and industry magazines in an effort to get beyond the
unhelpful scaremongering put about by many security vendors. Twitter:
@TheKenMunroShow