**Date**: Thursday, 16th June 2016, 18:00

**Location**: SpaceportX, 26 1st floor, 24 Lever St, Manchester M1 1DZ

**Registration**: Tickets are available [via
Eventbrite](https://www.eventbrite.co.uk/e/owasp-manchester-meeting-16th-june-2016-tickets-25550865326)

**Event sponsors**: [Avecto](http://avecto.com)

**Presentations:**

**Dr. Ali Dehghantanha - Digital Forensics: The Missing Piece of the
Internet of Things Promise**

**Abstract:** Every new device we create, every sensor we deploy, every
byte we synchronize to other locations will at some point come under
scrutiny in the course of investigations and legal matters. Yet no
reliable forensics applications nor digital forensics guidance exists to
retrieve the data from IoT devices in the event of a cyber event, an
active investigation or a litigation request. The digital forensics of
internet of things (IoT) technologies is the missing conversation in our
headlong rush to the promise of connecting every device on the planet.
This presentation discuss about issues and importance of further
development in this field and elaborates on how forensics practitioners,
device manufacturers and legal authorities could share the efforts and
minimise this gap.

**Speaker's Bio:** Dr. Ali Dehghantanha is a Marie-Curie International
Incoming Fellow in Cyber Forensics and has served for many years in a
variety of research and industrial positions. Other than Ph.D in Cyber
Security he holds many professional certificates such as GREM, CISM,
CISSP, and CCFP. He has served as an expert witness, cyber forensics
analysts and malware researcher with leading players in Cyber-Security
and E-Commerce. Additional information can be found at
<http://alid.info>

**Paul Johnson - Teaching secure coding**

**Abstract:** Many organisations invest heavily in detecting application
vulnerabilities, using static analysis and pen testing. Another tool in
your security arsenal is to prevent vulnerabilities being introduced in
the first place. To help with this, Pentest provide a "Secure coding
workshop". The workshop teaches developers how to code securely, and
avoid vulnerabilities like SQL injection and XML external entities.
Having run this course with several programming languages, and students
of various abilities, we've learned a lot about the pedagogy of secure
coding. In this talk we share some of our key insights for delivering a
successful secure coding workshop.

**Speaker's Bio:** Paul is a security consultant at Pentest, working
mostly on web application tests, and the secure coding workshop. He is
interested in static analysis, and how frameworks can encourage
developers to write secure applications. When he's not on the computer,
you might see him running or on a mountain bike.

**Jennie Williams - Tackling Cyber Crime in the North West**

**Abstract:** The National Security Strategy categorised cyber-attacks
as a Tier One threat to our national security, alongside international
terrorism. The threat to our national security from cyber-attacks is
real and growing. Terrorists, hostile states and cyber criminals are
among those targeting computer systems in the UK. We all need to work
together to combat this threat and help protect one another.

**Speaker's Bio:** Jennie Williams is a Cyber Protect Officer at TITAN,
the North West Regional Organised Crime Unit. Her role involves working
with business, education and the general public to raise awareness of
the potential risk and impact of Cyber Crime along with the simple steps
that can be taken to prevent becoming a victim.