**Date**: Friday, 20th May 2016, 18:00

**Location**: KMPG

**Registration**:
<http://www.meetup.com/OWASP-Bristol/events/229465685/>

**Event sponsors**: KPMG

**Workshop**: Secure Application Design and Cyber-Attack Simulation &
Testing Using Risk Centric Threat Modelling

**Event Summary**

The presentation will cover the fundamentals and the practice of using
threat modelling to review the design of web and mobile applications and
identify design flaws that lead to security weaknesses. Learn how to
mitigate threats with the design of security controls and
countermeasures and security test cases that can be derived from use and
abuse cases and attack vectors to identify vulnerabilities in web and
mobile applications. The overall workshop consists of two sessions of
one hour each: the first session will provide attendees with an
understanding of the fundamentals of threats, attacks vulnerabilities
and impact on the data assets. The second session will provide example
on how to conduct threat modelling including analysis of the threats
affecting a specific application software, the modelling of the attack
vectors, the derivation of specific security requirements for the design
of the web application during the SDLC and the derivation of test cases
to simulate the behaviour of either a web or mobile application under
specific types of attacks.

**Part I: Threat Modelling Fundamentals**

The course will introduce the audience to basic threat and risk
terminology, explain the relationships between information security
threats, attacks, vulnerabilities, assets and impact on these from
technical and business impacts perspectives. We will cover different
methodologies to analyze threats to and for the modeling of attacks and
data, methods for analyze the application design to identify the design
flaws, methods for deriving test cases using use and abuse cases and
methods for assigning severity to the risk of the issues being
identified.

**Part II: Threat Modelling Process Walkthrough**

A new threat modelling process for simulating attacks and analyse
threats will be introduced and will be shown how can be used by security
architects to identify design flaws, by pen testers to conduct specific
types of tests and by information security managers to manage the risk
of targeted cyber-attacks against web and mobile applications. A process
walkthrough will cover with examples the various activities that need to
be followed to conduct threat modelling during the SDLC such as to
derive security requirements for the secure design of applications, data
flow diagrams to analyse security controls in the application
architecture, threat analysis to analyse specific types of threats to
the application assets and attack modelling to derive attack vectors
that along with use and abuse cases can be used to derive test cases for
simulating real attacks against web and mobile applications. For
information risk managers, we will show how threat modelling is a
critical assessment that can help to identify countermeasures to
mitigate the risk of sophisticated cyber-threats such as malware
threats, data compromise threats and denial of service attack threats.

'''Bio: ''' Dr. Marco Morana volunteers for the OWASP organization as
project leader of the application security guide for CISOs and is
current member OWASP London chapter.

In his current professional role, Dr. Morana works as Senior
VicePresident at large Financial Institution (FI) in London, UK where he
is responsible for the architecture, risk analysis, and threat modelling
program. Dr. Morana also leads strategic initiatives to identity new
countermeasures for mitigating the risks of sophisticated cyber-threats
targeting web and mobile applications.

In his distinguished 15+ years of career in application security, Dr.
Morana held roles in different companies as security consultant,
application security architect, professional trainer and program
manager. As cyber-security technologist, Dr. Morana most important
contributions to cyber-security is the invention of the first secure
email plug-in using SMIME protocol that was patented for NASA in 1996.

Dr. Morana has been the advisor of the EU funded project on cyber-crime
roadmap research CyberROAD and provide lectures yearly at the PhD Summer
School on Computer Security & Privacy at University of Cagliari Italy.

Dr. Morana has been an active contributor to the OWASP organization
since 2005 volunteering for the following projects: application security
guide for CISOs , OWASP security testing guide , the OWASP Source Code
Review Project and OWASP Security Analysis of Core J2EE Design Patterns
Project and most recently the OWASP cyber-security startup accelerator
initiative

His work on application and software security has been widely published
on In-secure magazine,Secure Enterprise, ISSA Journal as well as DHS
Software Security Assurance and the most recent work is Risk Centric
Threat Modeling: Process for Attack Simulation and Threat Analysis Book
published by Wiley in 2015.