__FORCETOC__ We would like to thank our speakers for donating their
time and effort to help make this conference successful.

How does an individual change the application security culture of an
organization? By designing and deploying an application security
awareness program that contains engaging content, humor, and
recognition. Application security awareness is part security knowledge,
part lessons learned from history, and action to improve security into
the future.

Each company has an application security culture, but most of them need
a boost. Come and experience a successful blue print for how you can
build an application security awareness program of your own. The content
is based on five years of real life experience implementing application
security awareness in a large enterprise reaching 30,000 people.

Go beyond traditional security awareness, and dive deep into changing
the DNA of those who code, test, and deploy applications within their
organization. The session uses the illustration of building a house,
with six points used to show the ideal way to construct a successful
application security awareness program. We move from answering what is
application security awareness, to providing the details for how anyone
can build a program of their own. This advice is from real life
experience; this is how we did it, and how anyone in the audience can
use this blue print to deploy their own program.

The six blueprints are:

Mission: how to define and build a team to support

Program architecture: design a program that covers all roles and
recognizes achievements, on a budget

Curriculum: what to teach, and how to decide what to include

Humor: how to use humor to engage the audience

Content Creation: how to build application security learning that people
want to enjoy

Tools: things you can add to enhance the program's organizational
visibility

Virtually every site has some marketing javascript (aka tags) running on
it to allow the analysis of user actions or to present the user with a
customized page. Most commonly this javascript is delivered to the users
browser directly from the 3rd party. What that means is the javascript
never goes thru any of your security controls; no design review, no code
review, no web application firewall. We will explain the tools and
ecosystem used to create and deliver this javascript, show how they have
caused actual Cross Site Scripting vulnerabilities in various well known
sites, discuss some possible technical controls and present a simple
page javascript architecture that prevents this XSS and is actually
faster and is recommended by tag management services.

SAST, DAST, and WAF have been around for almost 15 years — they’re
almost impossible to use, can’t protect modern applications, and aren’t
compatible with modern software development. Recent studies have
demonstrated that these tools miss the majority of real vulnerabilities
and attacks while generating staggering numbers of false positives. To
compensate, these tools require huge teams of application security
experts that can’t possibly keep up with the size of modern application
portfolios. Fortunately, the next generation of application security
technology uses dynamic software instrumentation to solve these
challenges. Gartner calls these products “Interactive Application
Security Testing (IAST)” and “Runtime Application Self-Protection
(RASP).” In this talk, you’ll learn how IAST and RASP have
revolutionized vulnerability assessment and attack prevention in a
massively scalable way.

Follow me through my discovery of Docker anti-patterns, stemming from a
core misunderstanding of containerization. Understand my mistakes as
they could be your own and figure out what the right and true solutions
are.

We’ll explore anti-patterns such as the multiple-concerns container,
latest is greatest and SSH for beginners, each of them a security
concern. We’ll explore anti-anti-patterns, a.k.a. best practices with a
slant towards the practical and realistic.

Everyone has the read the OWASP guides and understand the common
security vulnerabilities that affect web applications. However, often
what OWASP presents is very high level, basic, and don’t usually capture
some of the advanced forms that vulnerabilities manifest in.

In this talk I look at XML Injection, what it is and cover a few basic
examples. I then move onto a few real life examples of this
vulnerability that I have exploited in the wild on real life Application
Security assessments. I also will cover remediation and code review
strategies to prevent the issues.

Join these panelists and bring your questions and get different
perspectives as they talk about the future of information security and
the Internet Of Things (IoT).

Musical equipment has begun to be able to connect to the internet, to
set-up ad-hoc mesh networks, and to be updated over the air. We have
seen similar capabilities in other IoT devices and there has been little
to no security associated with these capabilities, which also the case
here. What is different is that we have the opportunity to hack devices
in unusual ways, one of which is by use of sound to overwrite the signal
processing software on some guitar pedals. In this talk we will show how
the software on a guitar pedal can be overwritten just using sound and
how to reverse engineer this update process to create and upload
arbitrary software of our own design onto the guitar pedal.

Does your organization rely heavily on vendor products/applications for
streamlining your processes? Do you wonder what threats your data is
being exposed to while handled by these applications? Are you a product
company trying to assure your clients on the security of your
application without divulging too much information? Have you faced
situations where your client demands to run their own security
assessment? This talk aims to help the audience understand:

  - What data you should be looking for in the assessment report
  - How to send or share information with people outside the
    organization
  - What you should be worried about in the assessment report and plans
    for remediation
  - Current practices among vendors

Being the Operating System with the largest user-base, the threat
landscape for Android applications cannot often be ignored. While
Android OS is being used in a wide variety of devices from smart watches
to TVs, a large chunk of its user-base is concentrated to mobile phones.
Popular services which were offered over web are also trying constantly
to adapt themselves for the mobile environment. This raises a few
important questions to Information Security enthusiasts.

1.  How similar or how different are the threats related to Android
    applications?
2.  How can we perform penetration tests on an Android application?

The presentation would cover the basic threat model for android
applications and would provide a quick guide to perform penetration
tests on android applications detailing how we can intercept android
traffic and decompile the application package.

Bill's presentation will discuss the state of software product security:
where we've been, why we're still struggling after over 30 years of
trying, and what we must do, strategically, to improve.

EMC handles vulnerability management for over 70+ products. As volume of
intake increases year by year, EMC Product Security Response Center had
to take a systematic, proactive approach to guide the product units at
all levels to work seamlessly in managing and responding to these
vulnerabilities. We will share the chaos that we faced and discuss how
order was restored to our command center.