__NOTOC__

## Welcome

This is the homepage for the 2016 Boston Application Security Conference
(BASC). This free conference will take place 8:30am to 6:30pm on
Saturday, October 1<sup>st</sup> at

  - Location: [5 Wayside Road Burlington,
    MA](https://goo.gl/maps/MErChZ3cX5B2) ***Note the location is
    different from last year.***

The BASC will be a free, one day, informal conference, aimed at
increasing awareness and knowledge of application security in the
greater Boston area. While many of the presentations will cover
state-of-the-art application security concepts, the BASC is intended to
appeal to a wide-array of attendees. Application security professionals,
professional software developers, software quality engineers, computer
science students, and security software vendors should be able to come
to the BASC, learn, and hopefully enjoy themselves at the same time.

## Registration

[Please register
now\!](https://www.eventbrite.com/e/boston-application-security-conference-basc-2016-tickets-27531266760)

Admission to the BASC is free but
[registration](https://www.eventbrite.com/e/boston-application-security-conference-basc-2016-tickets-27531266760)
is required for breakfast, lunch, and the evening social time. We will
do everything possible to accommodate late registrants but the facility
and food are limited.

## Keynotes

![DennisHurst2.jpg](DennisHurst2.jpg "DennisHurst2.jpg")**Opening
Keynote: AppSec and DevOps**

Dennis Hurst, Saltworks

Dennis's opening keynote will focus on the integration of Application
Security into an Agile / DevOps environment and will discuss what Dennis
has seen work well, what new challenges these development and deployment
approach bring and a few “lessons learned the hard way” types of
mistakes made and learned from.

Dennis Hurst is a highly respected security expert with unprecedented
expertise in the area of application security and the integration of
security into all aspects of the Software Development Lifecycle (SDLC).


![DeirdreDiamond.jpg](DeirdreDiamond.jpg "DeirdreDiamond.jpg")**Closing
Keynote: Soft Skills Matter - How to speak XSS**

Deidre Diamond, CyberSN and \#brainbabe

In today’s technology-based economic landscape, application security is
at the heart of risk. How does an application security engineer go from
discovering XSS to attending business meetings? Deidre Diamond, Founder
and CEO of CyberSN, has spent her career building teams comprised of
technical and non-technical people that have created high-performance
project success and extreme job satisfaction. Deidre will cover the soft
skills fundamentals that members of technical and non-technical teams
need in order to specialize in one's own specific function while
powerfully speaking to the business. Attendees will leave with a deeper
understanding of the importance of lean language, win/win communication
and making measurable agreements. Join Deidre in closing out our event
by looking at the social aspect of what we do every day.

Deidre Diamond is the Founder and CEO of the national cyber security
staffing company CyberSN, the Founder of not-for-profit thought
leadership platform \#brainbabe, and a Strategic Board Member of ICMCP.
Prior to founding CyberSN.com and \#brainbabe, she was the CEO of
Percussion Software, the first VP of Sales at Rapid7 (NYSE:RPD) and the
VP of Sales for the national technical staffing company Motion
Recruitment. Because Diamond herself was hired as an entry-level college
graduate and trained to lead technology service organizations and cyber
security organizations, she believes the tech community needs to expand
its awareness of what it means “to be in tech” and what it means “to be
in cyber security.” Diamond desires to achieve a new way of hiring and
retaining women in cyber security.

\--

## Call for Papers

The [Call For Papers](BASC_2016_Call_For_Papers "wikilink") is open.

## Call for Training

The [Call for Training](http://tinyurl.com/basc2016training) is open.
--\>

  - [Agenda](2016_BASC_Agenda "wikilink")
  - [Presentations](2016_BASC_Presentations "wikilink")
  - [Training Workshops](2016_BASC_Training "wikilink")
  - [Speakers](2016_BASC_Speakers "wikilink")
  - LinkedIn
    [Group](https://www.linkedin.com/groups/Boston-Application-Security-Conference-BASC-4631647)
  - Twitter: Follow [@BASConf](http://twitter.com/#!/BASConf) HashTag:
    \#basc2016
  - [Sponsorship Kit](Media:BASCSponsorship2016.pdf "wikilink")
  - [Registration](https://www.eventbrite.com/e/boston-application-security-conference-basc-2016-tickets-27531266760)

## OWASP Boston Chapter

BASC is presented by the [OWASP
Boston](https://www.owasp.org/index.php/Boston) chapter.