### Matt Cheung

**Veracode**
Matt Cheung is a Quality Assurance Engineer for the static analysis
engine at Veracode. His first practical introduction to modern
cryptography was from an internship during grad school where he worked
on additively homomorphic encryption and secure multiparty computation.
In the years since, he has developed an interest in how cryptography
does and doesn't work. Matt spoke last year at BASC on the topic of
cryptography as well as presented this workshop at the Crypto and
Privacy Village at DEFCON 24.

### Bill Campbell

**Predicatable Solutions**
Bill Campbell has managed technology operations, software development
and security functions at companies including the MITRE Corporation,
Union Bank, Fidelity Investments and Symantec, among others. He is a
CISSP, and has served on the (ISC)2 Ethics Committee for 15 years. His
career has focused on producing dramatic improvements in stability,
reliability and efficiency by correctly identifying and then eliminating
the root causes of negative influences, and addressing the fundamentals
to achieve dramatic improvements.

### Erik Dasque

**Constant Contact**
A Sr Director at Constant Contact, I have recently lead the Docker
Working Group here, built the Docker Bootcamp class and have been, on
the app development side, pushing Docker & Application Level Metrics
(statsd, Graphite, Grafana) to improve DevOps practices wherever I roam.

### Casey Dunham

**GuidePoint Security**
Casey Dunham is a Senior Security Consultant in the Application Security
Practice at GuidePoint Security where he focuses on web application
security, source code review, and developer training, where his 10 years
of software development experience comes in handy. Other interests
include bourbon, travel, exploit development, and OSINT. Casey holds a
bachelor’s degree in Computer Science from the University of Southern
Maine and is the current Chapter President of OWASP Maine.

### Robert Hurlbut

**Robert Hurlbut Consulting Services**
Robert Hurlbut, of Robert Hurlbut Consulting Services based in Enfield,
CT, is a Microsoft MVP for Developer Technologies and Security and holds
the (ISC)2 CSSLP security certification. Robert has 30 years of industry
experience in software security, software architecture, and software
development. He has served as a project manager, director of software
development, and chief software architect for several projects. He
speaks at user groups, national and international conferences, and
provides training for many clients. You can follow Robert on his blog at
<https://roberthurlbut.com/blog> and on Twitter at
<https://twitter.com/roberthurlbut> and most recently co-hosting with
Chris Romeo a new Application Security Podcast at
<https://www.appsecpodcast.org>.

### Dennis Hurst

**Saltworks Security**
Mr. Dennis Hurst is on the HP team at Saltworks Security and is a highly
respected security expert with unprecedented expertise in the area of
application security and the integration of security into all aspects of
the Software Development Lifecycle (SDLC).
<https://www.linkedin.com/in/dennishurst>

### Matt Morency

**Pegasystems**
This bio is so short, it is already done.

### Apoorv Munshi

**Northeastern University**
\* Candidate for Master of Science in Information Assurance at
Northeastern University

  - Former application security intern at Cigital
  - Currently working at Genospace as an application security intern
  - Board member of the ISSA Northeastern University Chapter
  - Conducted a similar workshop at Northeastern University
  - Attendee at OWASP Boston, Boston security meetup, Blackhat USA 2015,
    DEFCON 23, CircleCityCon 2015, Appsec USA

### Nivedita Murthy

**Cigital**
Nivedita Murthy is a Security Consultant at Cigital. She has 7 years of
experience in managing information security operations, including
application security reviews, proxy and firewall security,
infrastructure patch management, and incident response. Her current
focus is on vulnerability remediation.

### Chris Romeo

**Security Journey**
Chris Romeo is CEO and co-founder of Security Journey. His passion is to
bring application security awareness to all organizations, large and
small. He was the Chief Security Advocate at Cisco Systems for five
years, where he guided Cisco’s Security Advocates, empowering engineers
to "build security in" to all products at Cisco. He led the creation of
Cisco’s internal, end-to-end application security awareness program
launched in 2012. Chris has twenty years of experience in security,
holding positions across the gamut, including application security,
penetration testing, and incident response. Chris is a sought after
conference speaker and holds the CISSP and CSSLP.

### Roshan Thomas and Anurag Dwivedy

**Northeastern University**
Roshan Thomas is a student of Northeastern University currently pursuing
his Masters in Information Assurance. He has around 4 years of
experience as an Information Security Consultant. He has performed
Network, Application and Mobile Application Penetration tests and is
also familiar with a number of Enterprise Network and Application
security Solutions. He is a SANS GIAC Certified Incident Handler. He is
also a bug bounty hunter recognized by IBM
(http://www-01.ibm.com/support/docview.wss?uid=swg21987126) and
Coinbase.

Anurag Dwivedy is a Masters student in Information Assurance at the
Northeastern University. Prior to moving to information security he used
to work as a software developer. He is experienced in C\#, C, C++,
PowerShell, SQL, Perl, x86 Assembly and is familiar with the common
applications used in banking & financial infrastructure. He has been an
integral part of the team which developed a web based MVC application to
manage fraud Database and reconcilement of ATM transactions. He has also
worked on an academic project which analyzed security mechanism in .NET
and implemented countermeasures for OWASP Top 10 vulnerabilities.

### Tania Ward and Kristen Pascale

**EMC Corporation**
Tania Ward has worked as part of EMC Product Security Response Center
for over 3 years. Prior to that, she had worked at Microsoft for just
under 14 years working on products from SQL Server, Windows Live to
Microsoft Office. In her spare time she volunteers as an EMT in her
local town as well as a ski patroller at Wachusett Mountain Ski Resort.

Kristen Pascale has worked as part of the EMC Product Security Response
Center for over 4 years. Prior to that, she worked at Fidelity
Investments for 14 years supporting implementations and data management
in the 401(k) retirement sector . She spends most of her spare time with
her four boys. She is an avid runner and enjoys travelling with her
family.

### Jeff Williams

**Contrast Security**
A pioneer in application security, Jeff Williams is the founder and CTO
of Contrast Security, a revolutionary application security product.
Contrast is an application agent that enables software to both report
vulnerabilities and prevent attacks. Jeff has over 25 years of security
experience, speaks frequently on cutting-edge application security, and
has helped secure code at hundreds of major enterprises. Jeff served as
the Global Chairman of the OWASP Foundation for eight years, where he
created many open-source standards, tools, libraries, and guidelines -
including the OWASP Top Ten.

### Jim Weiler

**Starwood Hotels**
Application Security Architect at Starwood Hotels for 9 years.
Application security manager at Staples for 5 years. Boston OWASP
Chapter leader for 12 years. Author and primary editor of OWASP
cheatsheet [Managing 3rd Party
Javascript](https://www.owasp.org/index.php/3rd_Party_Javascript_Management_Cheat_Sheet).