### Stephen Allor

**Secure Code Warrior**
Steve is the US Director for Secure Code Warrior and heads up Global
Sales and Business Development.

### Phil Barrows

**MEI Security**

### Pete Chestna

**Veracode**
Pete Chestna is Director of Developer Engagement at Veracode/CA, and he
provides customers with practical advice on how to successfully roll out
developer-centric application security programs. Relying on more than 10
years of direct AppSec practitioner experience as both a developer and
development leader, Pete provides information on best practices amassed
from personal experience in addition to working with Veracode’s 1,000+
global customers. He led Veracode’s transformation from Waterfall to
Agile to DevOps and from monolith to microservice architecture. He is
certified as both a scrum master and product owner. From his experience
as both a practitioner and consultant, Pete has spoken internationally
at both security and developer conferences on the topics of Application
Security (AppSec), Agile and DevOps.

### Anirudh Duggal

**Northeastern University**
Anirudh Duggal is a graduate candidate at Northeastern University who
works with Philips Healthcare. He works on securing medical devices and
consumer products. He has around 5 years of experience in the
Information Security domain. He has a keen interest in securing and
breaking medical devices and infrastructure and has presented his
research around the topic at conferences like Blackhat 2016 (Las Vegas),
Hack In The Box (Amsterdam), Positive Hack Days (Moscow), Nullcon (Goa),
Hacks in Taiwan (Taipei), CoCon (Kochi), Ground Zero (Delhi). Anirudh
also leads the ISSA, Northeastern University chapter as the chapter
President and conducts dialogues and training on Cyber security in
general. Besides working on healthcare security, he has a keen interest
in Sustainability and Music. He is often found biking around Boston
looking for inspiration to his new music.

### Devin Dwyer

**Salesforce**
Devin Dwyer is a recent graduate of the Computing Security program at
Rochester Institute of Technology, and he is currently employed by
Salesforce as a Product Security Engineer. Devin is a strong proponent
for manual static code analysis and finds joy in performing deep dive
code reviews to find issues with authentication logic, data
sanitization, and access control. When in need of a confidence boost and
a way to kill boredom, he searches for low hanging fruit in Wordpress
plugins.

### Dave Ferguson

**Qualys**
Dave Ferguson is a Solution Architect and SME with Qualys and has been
immersed in all things application security since 2006. After writing
code as a developer for over a decade, Dave worked as a consultant
pen-testing applications and training other developers on how to build
secure apps. Prior to Qualys, he led the global application security
program at Sabre Corporation and worked at Veracode. Dave is author of
the OWASP Forgot Password Cheat Sheet and holds CISSP and CSSLP
certifications.

### Venkatesh Ganapathy

**Black Duck Software**
Venkatesh Ganapathy has around 14 years of software development
experience in Java and web technologies. He holds a Bachelor’s Degree in
Computer Science and Master’s Degree in Computer Applications from
Madurai Kamaraj University, India. Venkatesh is also a Sun Certified
Java developer and a proud OWASP member who has attended two
OWASP-sponsored developer training sessions in the past. His job title
is senior software engineer, and it’s been more than 10 years since he
joined Black Duck Software located in Burlington, MA. The primary goal
of Black Duck Software is to help organizations establish better
security practices and policies to protect against vulnerabilities.
Venkatesh was involved in designing many features in Black Duck’s
flagship product. About 4 years back he started to look deeply into
learning and remediating various security vulnerabilities. Venkatesh’s
main responsibility in Black Duck is to certify that all security
products are released without any vulnerabilities. He is part of the
incident response team, performing security reviews, mitigating
operational risks and remediating issues. Venkatesh pro-actively uses
different tools and techniques to analyze the applications. This
includes performing penetration testing in different layers and
remediating any issues that are identified.

### Robert Hurlbut

**Robert Hurlbut Consulting Services**
Robert Hurlbut, based in Enfield, CT, is a software security consultant
and trainer. Robert is a Microsoft MVP for Developer Technologies and
Security and holds the (ISC)2 CSSLP security certification. Robert has
30 years of industry experience in software security, software
architecture, and software development. He speaks at user groups,
national and international conferences, and provides training for many
clients. You can follow Robert on his blog at
<https://roberthurlbut.com/blog> and on Twitter at
<https://twitter.com/roberthurlbut> and co-hosting on the Application
Security Podcast at <https://www.appsecpodcast.org>.

### Patrick Laverty

**Rapid7**
Patrick Laverty has been leading the Rhode Island chapter of OWASP since
April 2013, and he recently restarted the DefCon401 group in Providence.
He works for Rapid7 as a penetration tester with a preference for web
applications and teaches Rapid7's Application Assault web pentesting
course. He worked at a university building web applications for 12
years, helped out with Rhode Island and Boston Security BSides
conferences. Loves cookies. Twitter: @plaverty9

### Chris Poulin

*' Booz Allen Hamilton*'
Chris Poulin, is Principal/Director in Booz Allen Hamilton’s Strategic
Innovations Group, where he leads the Internet of Things security
strategy in Booz Allen’s Dark Labs, as well as dabbles in Machine
Intelligence. He joins BAH from IBM, where he led their X-Force research
teams and built the first prototype Watson for cybersecurity. Despite
his recent roles in large enterprises, he has an entrepreneurial
background, having founded, built, and sold a boutique information
security consulting firm, FireTower, Inc., and served as the Chief
Security Officer for Q1 Labs, a startup in the Security Intelligence
space. Chris started his security career in the U.S. Air Force over 30
years ago, where he managed global networks and developed software for
the intelligence community.

### Joe Rozner

**Prevoty**
Joe Rozner (@jrozner) is a software engineer at Prevoty where he has
built semantic analysis tools, language runtimes, generalized solutions
to common vulnerability classes, and designed novel integration
technology leveraging runtime memory patching. He has a passion for
reverse engineering, exploitation, teaching, and sharing research with
others.

### Abhishek Singh

**Northeastern University**
Abhishek Singh is a Master's student for Information Assurance and Cyber
Security at the Northeastern University. He has over 3 years of
experience in Information Security industry. He is proficient with
python, perl, bash programming languages. He has working experience in
designing penetration testing and end point security testing labs.

### Chris Smith

**Salesforce**
Chris Smith is a Senior Product Security Engineer at Salesforce where he
helps design and build new AppSec tools and processes, ensuring that
customers, partners, and internal engineering can meet and exceed best
security practices. His goal is to make security accessible and
understandable by both the security-minded and the security-unaware.

### Vik Solem

**MEI Security**
Vik Solem takes physical and information security seriously, bringing
lessons learned from over 30 years experience in IT at such firms as
BBN, AtStake, Symantec, and Tufts University. Throughout his career,
Vik, a CISSP, has worked passionately on cryptanalysis, forensics,
comprehensive risk assessments, vulnerability identification &
mitigation, “white hat” penetration testing, security policies, and
other aspects of information security in our constantly evolving
threatscape. He has presented numerous times on cost-effective security
best practices for small and medium sized businesses at client locations
and regional conferences. Vik is a contributor to the security related
organizations ASIS and Infragard, and organizes the New England Small
Business Security Meetup, which meets monthly.

### Robert Thau

**Smartleaf**
Robert Thau is currently Chief Architect at Smartleaf, which runs a
financial portfolio management system which is used by several major
financial institutions to manage portfolios worth over $50 billion. He
was also a major contributor to the original Apache Web Server effort
(developing the API, among other things), for which he is co-recipient
of the ACM System Software Award. He holds a Ph.D. in Computational
Neuroscience from MIT.

### Roshan Thomas

**Northeastern University**
Roshan Thomas is a student of Northeastern University currently pursuing
his Masters in Information Assurance. He is a SANS GIAC Certified
Incident Handler with around 5 years of experience in the Information
Security industry. He occassionally doubles as a bug bounty hunter and
have been acknowledged by IBM, HP and HDFC Bank. He has presented in
OWASP BASC 2016 on Android Penetration Testing.

### Jim Weiler

**Starwood Hotels**
Application Security Architect at Starwood Hotels for 10 years.
Application security manager at Staples for 5 years. Boston OWASP
Chapter leader for 12 years. Author and primary editor of OWASP
Cheatsheet Managing 3rd Party Javascript.

### Michael Weissbacher

**Northeastern University**
Michael Weissbacher is a PhD student and Research Assistant at the
SecLab of Northeastern University. His research interests are focused on
the security of web applications on both client and server side.

### April Wright

**Verizon Wireline**
April C. Wright is a Senior Security and Compliance Manager for Verizon
Wireline, building SDLC program maturity, implementing eGRC,
spearheading threat intelligence, and performing risk reduction with a
vengeance via leadership of comprehensive security programs for massive
global infrastructures. She is a hacker who has spent the last 25 years
as a generalist, breaking, making, fixing, and defending all the things,
while playing roles on offensive, defensive, operational, and
development teams throughout her career. Specializing in seemingly
nothing (except maybe learning about everything in the hope of sharing
and employing knowledge), April has collected dozens of certifications
to add letters at the end of her name, from Social Engineering to Cloud
Security to First Aid to Photography. She once read on the interwebs
that researchers at the University of North Carolina released a
comprehensive report in 2014 confirming that she is the “most
significant and interesting person currently inhabiting the earth”, so
it must be true.