__NOTOC__

## Welcome

This is the homepage for the 2017 Boston Application Security Conference
(BASC). \*Note that the conference will be free but training and
workshops may incur a fee\*. Conference will take place 8:30am to 6:30pm
on Saturday, October 14<sup>th</sup> at

  - Location: [5 Wayside Road Burlington,
    MA](https://goo.gl/maps/MErChZ3cX5B2)

The BASC will be a free, one day, informal conference, aimed at
increasing awareness and knowledge of application security in the
greater Boston area. While many of the presentations will cover
state-of-the-art application security concepts, the BASC is intended to
appeal to a wide-array of attendees. Application security professionals,
professional software developers, software quality engineers, computer
science students, and security software vendors should be able to come
to the BASC, learn, and hopefully enjoy themselves at the same time.

## Registration

[Please Register
Now](https://www.eventbrite.com/o/owasp-boston-591242931)

Registration is required for breakfast, lunch, and the evening social
time. We will do everything possible to accommodate late registrants but
the facility and food are limited.

## Keynotes

**Writing Code to Save the World**

**Chris Poulin,** Booz Allen Hamilton

![Chris_Poulin.png](Chris_Poulin.png "Chris_Poulin.png")

Every application that you create, every line of code that you type, has
the potential to do good or cause harm. Your app may allow banks to
transfer funds used to find a cure for cancer, optimize processing of
food so that it's affordable to the poor and starving, and even an
instant messaging app--ostensibly just a social distraction--can allow
repressed citizens to mount a revolution. At the same time, a single
line of poorly written code or a mistake in the implementation of an
authentication mechanism, can reroute millions of dollars away from a
cancer research lab into the pockets of cybercriminal, allow terrorists
to taint the food supply, or enable the continued crimes against
humanity by an autocratic regime. The OWASP provides guidance on how to
write more secure code, and you'll get plenty of training and hands-on
practice at BASC; beyond coding hygiene, how can you solve the problem
of security by writing applications that solve the larger problems?
Chris Poulin explores the potential to not just write secure code, but
to create apps that solve the bigger security issues.

Chris Poulin is Principal/Director in Booz Allen Hamilton’s Strategic
Innovations Group, where he leads the Internet of Things security
strategy in Booz Allen’s Dark Labs, as well as dabbles in Machine
Intelligence. He joins BAH from IBM, where he lead their X-Force
research teams and built the first prototype Watson for cybersecurity.
Despite his recent roles in large enterprises, he has an entrepreneurial
background, having founded, built, and sold a boutique information
security consulting firm, FireTower, Inc., and served as the Chief
Security Officer for Q1 Labs, a startup in the Security Intelligence
space. Chris started his security career in the U.S. Air Force over 30
years ago, where he managed global networks and developed software for
the intelligence community.

**All about You – the Cyber Security Professional**

**Candy Alexander**, CISSP, CISM, Board of Directors, ISSA International

![CandyAlexander.png](CandyAlexander.png "CandyAlexander.png")

It is fact that there is a lack of skilled resources to fill the demand
of open jobs. Mainstream approaches used today focus on attracting new
talent, however there is no concerted effort on how we keep skilled
people in the profession. Learn what can be used to get you what you
need, when you need it, and how to become successful throughout your
career.

Candy Alexander has nearly 30 years’ experience security working for
various large high tech companies. She has held several positions as
CISO (Chief Information Security Officer) for which she developed and
managed Corporate Security Programs. She is now working as a Virtual
CISO and Executive Cyber Security consultant assisting companies large
and small to improve their potential risks through effective security
initiatives. Candy is the chief architect for the Cyber Security Career
Lifecycle for the ISSA (Information Systems Security Association), and
is a long-standing Director on the International Board. She is also the
past President and Board Member of the ISSA Education and Research
Foundation. Candy has also served as Vice President of Education and
Vice President of International Relations for the ISSA. She remains a
loyal member at the local level with the New England Chapter and the
ISSA - New Hampshire Chapter. 

Candy has received numerous awards and recognition, including that of
Distinguished Fellow of the ISSA, ranking her as one of the top 1% in
the association, and she was inducted into the ISSA Hall of Fame in
2014. She also had the opportunity to be a featured speaker for the IT
Security Symposium at the United Nations, and received an invitation to
the Offices of the White House to speak on the importance of security
awareness to the President's "Cyber-Czar" staff.

  - [Agenda](2017_BASC_Agenda "wikilink")
  - [Presentations](2017_BASC_Presentations "wikilink")
  - [Workshops](2017_BASC_Workshops "wikilink")
  - [Speakers](2017_BASC_Speakers "wikilink")
  - LinkedIn
    [Group](https://www.linkedin.com/groups/Boston-Application-Security-Conference-BASC-4631647)
  - Twitter: Follow [@BASConf](http://twitter.com/#!/BASConf) HashTag:
    \#basc2017
  - [Sponsorship
    Kit](https://www.owasp.org/images/3/3b/BASCSponsorship2017.docx)
  - [Registration](https://www.eventbrite.com/o/owasp-boston-591242931)

## OWASP Boston Chapter

BASC is presented by the [OWASP
Boston](https://www.owasp.org/index.php/Boston) chapter.