__FORCETOC__ We would like to thank our speakers for donating their
time and effort to help make this conference successful.

ModSecurity Evader (MSeVader) is a tool that assists offensive security
testers in crafting payloads that evade ModSecurity WAF rules. A Burp
Suite extension providing visual feedback in real time to rule
violations, the attacker can tweak payloads before submitting them to
the web server, ensuring they are not blocked. The demonstration of the
tool will include techniques of fingerprinting the WAF, to determine
specific threshold settings of the WAF rules, allowing the attacker to
know whether the payload will be blocked without sending packets. This
tool has been used to successfully discover WAF evading payloads to
execute SQL injection, XSS, and inject web shells to a site behind a
popular commercial cloud-based WAF solution, at maximum paranoia
settings.

[Slides](Media:PainlessThreatModeling.pptx "wikilink") According to
OWASP, threat modeling is one of the most valuable activities to ensure
secure web application design. Yet leading resources on threat modeling
make it look like a massive and complex up-front effort. This
presentation will outline a practical approach to threat modeling that
can be started in just a few working days and can produce productive
collaboration between development and security teams.

From the time we choose to rise each morning, to the time we finally
rest our heads, almost every decision made in our daily lives, depends
on something. When we understand these dependencies we can better
control our responses. How a PSIRT manages its response is not black and
white either, in fact the quality of a response correlates to the degree
in which dependences are known and understood within the products which
get released. As developers incorporate more open source and commercial
third party components into their products, the complexity of these
dependencies continue to increase which causes a downstream ripple
effect on PSIRTs who are tasked with managing the responses for
vulnerabilities reported in these dependencies. A framework for managing
dependences is important so developers can understand the downstream
impact of their decisions on PSIRTs while opening the door for PSIRTs to
potentially shape those decisions. Further enforcing this dialogue
through dedicated PSIRT controls, lays the foundation for a PSIRT
response that truly shifts from reactive to proactive.

Bug bounties are a marketplace and like all marketplaces, there are good
sellers (researchers) and buyers (programs), and there bad sellers and
buyers. There are resources everywhere to help researchers get going in
this exciting world of bug hunting, but there are few resources
available to help those running programs. But it is far worse to be a
bad program than it is to be a bad researcher. Let's have a conversation
about how Upserve went from no bounty program to launching a public
program (and beyond\!). We'll talk about the speedbumps and the lessons
learned along the way. And you'll learn about how managing a successful
bug bounty program is more about managing expectations and clear
communication then it is about fixing security bugs.

APIs present enterprises with new risks and challenges to security. In
this presentation, I will discuss a methodology to secure your
enterprise's APIs. This methodology will include: Discovery (Breaking
down your APIs into basic groups, The difference between Web App
Discovery and API Discovery); Risk and Prioritization (Rapid Risk
Assessment); Testing (Tools, Vulnerabilities); Gateways, Serverless,
Microservices (Gateway vs. Service, Unique Requirements of API Services
Require Specialized Testing); Key Take-Aways on Securing your API
Environment (Have an API discovery and risk plan, Tools that worked on
Web Apps need more help with APIs, Newer technologies benefit from full
stack testing techniques).

Workforce development is reliant on the combination of a subject-matter
common language framework of projects and tasks. Job descriptions are
then derived from this same framework of subject-matter project and
tasks definition. A career development plan based on standardized
projects and tasks; along with a culture that allows for psychological
safety; will allow you to acquire and retain talent. When we combine
daily processes of business operations derived from a subject-matter
common language, in which all teammates know their role and the roles of
others on the team (along with a culture that allows humans to think,
feel and perceive without negative consequences) we can truly experience
workforce development in any subject-matter profession. Come hear how in
to achieve this success in cybersecurity. Between our technology and our
theories we are showing that organizations can obtain cybersecurity
talent in less than 60 days and retain them.

Modern applications require modern security and the OpenID Connect and
OAuth2 security protocols are designed to meet this need. To achieve a
modern security architecture you must then use something called a
“security token service” that implements these protocols. In this
session we will look at how applications are now architected to
incorporate and use a token service for authentication thus providing
single sign-on. We will also see how this same token service also
provides tokens for securing Web APIs. We will be using ASP.NET Core and
the popular open source framework IdentityServer to illustrate these
concepts.

There is no silver bullet for a successful DevSecOps. Each organization
has its own way of doing things and no two development groups are the
same. The good news is you can learn from mistakes made by others, and
avoid repeating those. In this session you will hear about their AppSec
programs, their journey to shift their security to the left, their
missteps, and the lessons learned.

Websites and mobile apps are the primary channel for how businesses
communicate with customers and consumers. However, the significant risk
they harbor continue to confound information security professionals for
three reasons. First, a majority of website code is provided by unknown
parties that execute outside the enterprise infrastructure. Second,
these shadow IT resources are not addressed by app scanning services.
Third, appsec teams don’t understand the composition of these digital
assets and the risks posed to the enterprise. There’s a fundamental
philosophy that these shadow IT resources are not part of websites and
mobile apps, and therefore not appsec’s responsibility. And it shows.
Digital-driven breaches occur with increasing regularity via compromised
third-party vendors such as tag management systems, chat bots, content
management systems, data management platforms, marketing analytics,
video platforms, advertisements, and more. Making matters worse, bad
actors leverage sophisticated targeting and obfuscation techniques to
continuously evade security researchers and technologies. Considering
that 50-95% of executing website code is typically delivered by
third-parties, enterprises need to rethink website security. How can you
secure code that application security tools—let alone, operations
teams—don’t even see executing on the user’s device? A real-time
review of five popular websites will demonstrate the complexity of the
digital environment and why breaches will continue to dominate
headlines.

The struggle is real before the pentest even starts; you have hundreds
of web applications to test, dozens of managers looking for redacted
pentest reports, and that one person who keeps coming to your desk for
updates (daily). It’s a mad world. We’ve been there, so you don’t have
to be\! Join us as we present how we leveraged the power of Dynamic
Application Security Testing (DAST), the concept of Tiering, and the
power of automation to test what matters (and yes, everything matters –
even internal applications). And how to use all that to make Pentesting
Great Again\! This is the one retrospective you won’t want to miss – key
take-aways from working on AppSecurity for over 3 years. If you’ve been
managing your issues in Excel, writing reports in Word, and are excited
to spend your time actually testing applications, this talk is for you\!
We’re anticipating for a highly collaborative session and hope you’ll
join - feedback, criticism and praise are all welcome\!

You may have heard it said that security should work to enable the
business. Easier said than done... how can a defensive practice provide
growth through risk management? In this talk, we'll review three
valuable roles security can play to fully integrate with the business it
supports. Expect simple, quick-win strategies from our experience
working with fellow defenders to translate between business needs,
negotiate prioritization, and energize collaborative initiatives for new
growth. Along the way, we'll cover realistic techniques to engage common
obstacles and set course towards a security-driven enterprise.

This presentation is an overview of Android security. The topics of
Android framework, common application vulnerabilities, as well as
penetration testing methods will be discussed. This presentation caters
to people who are interested in learning about the fundamentals of
Android security.