### Brock Allen

**Solliance, Inc.**
Currently Brock is an independent consultant specializing in .NET, web
development, and web-based security with 25 years of industry
experience. Brock is the co-author of many security related open source
frameworks including IdentityServer, which is a popular open source
OpenID Connect and OAuth2 framework for ASP.NET Core. He also frequently
posts to the ASP.NET forums, is a MVP for ASP.NET/IIS, and a contributor
to the ASP.NET platform.

### Stephen Allor

**Secure Code Warrior**
Steve Allor is Director of the Americas for Secure Code Warrior, a
global security company that makes software development better and more
secure. Since joining Secure Code Warrior soon after its inception,
Steve has been passionate about helping large global enterprises in the
finance, technology and telecommunications industries to scale an
engaging, interactive learning approach, enabling these organizations to
rally their developers as the first line of defense in their
cybersecurity strategies. Over the past 20 years, Steve has held various
executive leadership roles in sales, business development and marketing
for technology companies, where his focus was on enabling customer
success as he helped scale and grow the business. Steve has earned a
Bachelor of Science degree in Marketing at Boston College Carroll School
of Management, as well as a Master of Business Administration at
Harvard. LinkedIn: <https://www.linkedin.com/in/stephenallor>

### Philippe Arteau

**GoSecure**
Philippe is a security researcher working for GoSecure. His research is
focused on Web application security. His past work experience includes
pentesting, secure code review and software development. He is the
author of the widely-used Java static analysis tool Find Security Bugs.
He is also a contributor to the static analysis tool for .NET called
Security Code Scan. He built many plugins for Burp and ZAP proxy tools:
Retire.js, Reissue Request Scripter, CSP Auditor and many others. He
presented at several conferences including Black Hat Arsenal, ATLSecCon,
NorthSec, Hackfest (QC), 44CON and JavaOne.

### Phil Barrows

**MEI Security**
Phil Barrows' first exposure to computer security came in the United
States Air Force where he maintained radar digitizing equipment for the
airspace defense of the USA, holding a secret security clearance. After
service, Phil spent over 20 years in the engineering, manufacturing, and
distribution of world leading products in the electro-optics realm. In
the last 5 years Phil got pulled into cyber security full time. Phil is
a member of InfraGard and leads MEI Security’s weekly InfoSec industry
certification study group to help bolster the ranks of people standing
on the front lines of Information Security.

### Jessica Boy

**Dun & Bradstreet**
Jessica joined the IT Security world in 2014. After being accepted into
an internship program, her role was focused on Application Security;
primarily managing/coordinating projects with application teams. This
evolved into a larger focus on penetration testing, managing Application
Security QA, and delivery of core key metrics. She also helps facilitate
third party vendors, schedules assessments, and orchestrates
communication with application teams.

### Bryan Brannigan

**Upserve**
Bryan Brannigan is a business-minded technologist and leader of all
things infosec at Upserve. He is an advocate of defensible security
practices, a supporter of reality, and practitioner of common sense.
Bryan has worked in infosec for 9 years in roles that include security
operations, incident response, data loss, architecture, and management.

### Angelo Castigliola

**Optiv**
Angelo is a Principal Consultant with Optiv Security. Angelo has over 15
years of experience in Security, Consulting, and Programming. He has had
a lifelong interest in computer security. Angelo was presented a
Cybersecurity award from the Department of Homeland Security for his
contributions to President Obama’s Cyberspace Policy Review and The
Comprehensive National Cybersecurity Initiative. His work as a Cyber
Security expert has been recognized by Maine U.S. Senator Susan Collins.
The Cyber Security Grassroots initiative developed by Angelo “will make
a difference in our communities and in our state,” Senator Collins said.

### Erik Costlow

**Contrast Security**
Erik Costlow was Oracle's principal product manager for Java 8 and 9,
focused on security and performance. His security expertise from
managing Fortify's products involves threat modeling, code analysis, and
instrumentation of security sensors. He working to is broaden this
approach to security with Contrast Security. Before becoming involved in
technology, Erik was a circus performer who juggled fire on a
three-wheel vertical unicycle.

### Deidre Diamond

**CyberSN**
Deidre Diamond is the Founder/CEO of national cyber security staffing,
research and technology company CyberSN (cybersn.com), the Founder of
\#brainbabe (brainbabe.org) and an ICMCP Strategic Board Member. Deidre
was previously the CEO of Percussion Software, the first VP of Sales at
Rapid7 (NYSE:RPD) and the VP of Sales at Motion Recruitment.

### Brent Dukes

Brent Dukes is a systems and security engineer with 14 years' experience
working with radio communications and IoT systems from hardware through
SaaS. He has experience providing electronics reverse engineering
training, but wants everyone to know he enjoys hacking ALL the things
when he's not gearing up for his next CTF\!

### Andrew Gronosky

**Pegasystems**
Andrew Gronosky is a lifetime OWASP member who has been active in the
Boston chapter since 2009. As a research scientist at BBN Technologies
he co-developed the patented software Crumple Zone resilient security
architecture, and was security architect for the DoD-accredited TAK
server. Andrew is currently a Principal Software Engineer at
Pegasystems, where he is leading the threat modeling initiative.

### John Hammond

**US Coast Guard**
US Coast Guard hacker and CTF enthusiast. USCG Academy Cyber Team
Captain who led the team to winning placements in multiple competitions,
both civilian and military. Personally developed training material &
infosec challenges, and briefed multiple VIPs on cyber security (USCG
Commandant, members of Congress, DHS NPPD Undersecreary). Instructor and
curriculum author for Coast Guard course on "Introduction to Linux,"
with gamifying learning material and classroom activities. Online
YouTube personality to showcase programming tutorials, cyber security
guides, and CTF video walkthroughs.

### Robert Hurlbut

**Bank of America**
Robert Hurlbut, is a Threat Modeling Architect / Lead at Bank of
America. Robert is a Microsoft MVP for Developer Security and
Technologies and holds the (ISC)2 CSSLP security certification. Robert
has 30 years of industry experience in secure security, software
architecture, and software development. He speaks at user groups,
national and international conferences, and has provided training for
many companies in the past. Robert is also a co-host of the Application
Security Podcast at - follow on Twitter @AppSecPodcast .

### Katie Knowles

**MWR InfoSecurity**
Katie Knowles is an information security practitioner with a love of
exploration. As a Security Consultant with MWR InfoSecurity, she serves
as a penetration tester to assure the security of client networks and
applications as a penetration tester. Her previous work in security
engineering grants her a passion to ensure the security teams she
supports are equipped to quickly reduce risk and support the new
business projects securely. Katie holds OSCP and GPEN certifications,
and earned her BS in Electrical Engineering at RIT. She firmly believes
in growing alongside her peers, contributing to strong teams, and good
time spent on intriguing projects.

### Chris Olson

**The Media Trust**
Chris Olson co-founded The Media Trust and continues to shape its vision
and direction. Prior to founding the company, Olson served in leadership
positions for various high tech and ad technology companies. He is a
board member of the Interactive Advertising Bureau's Advertising
Technology Council and regularly speaks about cybersecurity trends and
best practices at industry events, including events such as Black Hat,
Evanta, FS-ISAC and RSA. Olson earned his bachelor’s degree from
Georgetown University, Washington, DC and an Executive MBA from the New
York University Stern School of Business.

### Kristen Pascale

**Dell**
Kristen Pascale has worked as part of the Dell PSIRT for over 6 years.
Prior to that, she worked at Fidelity Investments for 14 years
supporting implementations and data management in the 401(k) retirement
sector . She spends most of her spare time with her four boys. She is an
avid runner and enjoys travelling with her family.

### Dzung Pham

**Visa, Inc.**
Dzung is a mobile security engineer at Visa. She discovered the world of
cybersecurity in the Boston Security Meetup and has been hooked every
since. Before Visa, she worked as a security consultant for Synopsys.

### Joshua Piotrowski

**Dun & Bradstreet**
Josh has always had an interest in computer hacking and application
security. From using tools like Cheat Engine, he moved towards the
application development track and eventually IT Security. As his role
evolved from Identity and Access Management, he took up arms in the
Application Security realm where his core focus is on conducting manual
ethical hacking while aiming to become a breaker of all things\!

### Milan Shah

**Uptycs, Inc.**
Milan is a serial entrepreneur with a track record of building and
leading cutting edge cybersecurity technology companies. Prior to
co-founding Uptycs, Milan was SVP of Products and Engineering at Core
Security, where he formulated a vision for a new class of automated pen
testing solutions. Milan has also served as VP of Engineering at CA
Technologies and IMlogic, which was successfully acquired by Symantec.
The first part of his career was spent as a member of the early Windows
NT development team, and he was a key architect of Microsoft Exchange.
Milan holds a Masters in EECS degree from MIT, and a Bachelors in EECS
from University of Illinois, Urbana.

### Vik Solem

**MEI Security**
Vik Solem takes physical and information security seriously, bringing
lessons learned from over 30 years experience in IT at such firms as
BBN, AtStake, Symantec, and Tufts University. Throughout his career,
Vik, a CISSP, has worked passionately on cryptanalysis, forensics,
comprehensive risk assessments, vulnerability identification &
mitigation, “white hat” penetration testing, security policies, and
other aspects of information security in our constantly evolving
threatscape. He has presented numerous times on cost-effective security
best practices for small and medium sized businesses at client locations
and regional conferences. Vik is a contributor to the security related
organizations ASIS and InfraGard, and organizes the monthly New England
Small Business Security Meetup.

### Tania Ward

**Dell**
Tania Ward has worked as part of Dell PSIRT for over 5 years. Prior to
that, she had worked at Microsoft for just under 14 years working on
products from SQL Server, Windows Live to Microsoft Office. In her spare
time she volunteers as an EMT in her local town as well as a ski
patroller at Wachusett Mountain Ski Resort.

### Eitan Worcel

**IBM**
Eitan Worcel was an experienced developer with years of experience in
the area of Application Security testing. A few years ago, Eitan crossed
sides from the development organization into the product management
world and now is leading the Application Security on Cloud service which
helps users to secure their web or mobile applications. Eitan has worked
closely with a wide range of customers assisting them in their quest to
build secured web and mobile applications. He had participated in panels
and presented in security events around the world, along with writing a
numerous of blogs on the Application Security topic.