__NOTOC__

## Welcome

This is the homepage for the 2018 Boston Application Security Conference
(BASC). Conference will take place 8:30am to 6:30pm on Saturday, October
27<sup>th</sup> at

  - Location: [5 Wayside Road Burlington,
    MA](https://goo.gl/maps/MErChZ3cX5B2)

The BASC will be a free, one day, informal conference, aimed at
increasing awareness and knowledge of application security in the
greater Boston area. While many of the presentations will cover
state-of-the-art application security concepts, the BASC is intended to
appeal to a wide-array of attendees. Application security professionals,
professional software developers, software quality engineers, computer
science students, and security software vendors should be able to come
to the BASC, learn, and hopefully enjoy themselves at the same time.

## Registration

[Please Register
Now](https://www.eventbrite.com/o/owasp-boston-591242931)

Registration is required for breakfast, lunch, and the evening social
time. We will do everything possible to accommodate late registrants but
the facility and food are limited.

You may also register for one or more workshops, but workshop tickets
are limited. Please be considerate of others and **only register for a
workshop if you plan to attend**. If your plans change, please cancel
your ticket to free the space up for others. Do not sign up for more
than one session of the same workshop, or for workshops whose times
overlap. If you do, conference organizers will cancel your ticket
orders.

## Keynotes

**Secure By Design**

**Chris Wysopal,** CA Veracode

![Screen_Shot_2018-08-29_at_4.44.11_PM.png](Screen_Shot_2018-08-29_at_4.44.11_PM.png
"Screen_Shot_2018-08-29_at_4.44.11_PM.png")

As software becomes a bigger component of the value delivered by
companies in every industry, it’s no exaggeration to say that every
company is becoming a software company, that is competing with software.
Companies are pushing the envelope on how to tool up their internal
software factory to make software better, faster and more efficiently.
By necessity, software is more often assembled than it is created from
scratch, as developers are more frequently incorporating open source
libraries to speed up time-to-market. But as open source libraries
increase, so do the number of vulnerabilities, resulting in increased
risk. In this keynote Chris Wysopal talks about what it means to build
software secure by design. He will describe how to build a software
development process that has continuous security, is measurable, and is
transparent.

Chris Wysopal is Chief Technology Officer at CA Veracode. He oversees
technology strategy and information security. Prior to co-founding CA
Veracode in 2006 CA Veracode, Chris was vice president of research and
development at security consultancy @stake, which was acquired by
Symantec. In the 1990’s, Chris was one of the original vulnerability
researchers at The L0pht, a hacker think tank, where he was one of the
first to publicize the risks of insecure software. He has testified to
the US Congress on the subjects of government security and how
vulnerabilities are discovered in software. Chris received a BS in
computer and systems engineering from Rensselaer Polytechnic
Institute. He is the author of The Art of Software Security Testing.
Chris is often called upon to download the latest Minecraft mods for his
6-year-old son. An avid photographer and nature-lover, Chris spends his
free time hiking the many conservation trails near his home outside
Boston.

**Security at the Intersection of Software, Biology, and Science
Fiction**

**Chris Poulin,** BitSight Technologies

![ChrisPoulin.png](ChrisPoulin.png "ChrisPoulin.png")

The Internet of Things has lured traditional developers into the realm
of writing code for systems that interact with the physical world. The
current wave of devices are largely consumer and industrial
devices--things such as cars, thermostats, meters, and pumps--that have
been connected to the internet. We've barely begun to understand the
security ramifications of this pervasive network of sensors and
actuators; what happens when we start connecting ourselves, humans, to
the IoT?

Chris Poulin is a Principal Consulting Engineer at BitSight
Technologies, guiding enterprises in assessing risk metrics and managing
third party relationships. He’s been in cybersecurity for almost 35
years, in both technical roles as a developer for the DoD intelligence
community, and executive positions, such as CSO for Q1 Labs and CEO of
his own boutique consultancy. He’s spent time in both the startup
community and at established companies, such as IBM and Booz Allen
Hamilton. Chris brings this breadth of experience to customers, clients,
and the stage.

## Details

\--

  - [Workshops](2018_BASC_Workshops "wikilink")

\--\>

  - [Presentations](2018_BASC_Presentations "wikilink")
  - [Workshops](2018_BASC_Workshops "wikilink")
  - [Speakers](2018_BASC_Speakers "wikilink")
  - [Agenda](2018_BASC_Agenda "wikilink")
  - LinkedIn
    [Group](https://www.linkedin.com/groups/Boston-Application-Security-Conference-BASC-4631647)
  - Twitter: Follow [@BASConf](https://twitter.com/BASConf)
    @[OWASPBoston](https://twitter.com/owaspboston) HashTag: \#basc2018

\--

  - Only Silver Sponsorships Remain [Sponsorship
    Kit](https://www.owasp.org/index.php/File:BASCSponsorship2018_v2_\(002\).docx)

\--\>

## OWASP Boston Chapter

BASC is presented by the [OWASP
Boston](https://www.owasp.org/index.php/Boston) chapter.