## 8th December Leeds

**Date:** Wednesday 8th December in Manchester::: Kindly sponsored by
KPMG. For more details on our sponsors please click here
<http://www.kpmg.com/CN/en/WhatWeDo/Advisory/Risk-Compliance/IT-Advisory/Pages/default.aspx>

Please note, you MUST RSVP with the correct name as this will ensure you
can get access to the building. Please go to
<http://www.eventbrite.com/event/1088645167> to RSVP

**Location:** KPMG Manchester - Room 6.4, St James Square, Manchester,
Greater Manchester, M2 6DS

**Schedule: 18:00 for 18:15 start**

**18:20 - 18:30**

OWASP Chapter introduction. OWASP values and membership. Chapter
information.

*Jason Alexander - OWASP Leeds/Northern Chapter Board Member*

**18:30 - 19:15**

upSploit - Vulnerability Advisory Solution

*Thomas Mackenzie*

Over the past year a lot of vulnerabilities have been released out into
the wild and a lot of discussion has been had on what ethical disclosure
is. upSploit is an online web application / tool that can be used by
researchers to release vulnerabilities as ethically as possible.

The talk consists of a number of parts including: Information on
vulnerability disclosure before upSploit was around, the creation / idea
of upSploit and how it has helped and is helping the community at the
moment.

*Speaker Bio*

Tom studies a BSc (Hons) in Ethical Hacking for Computer Security at
Northumbria University in Newcastle and worked part time for Wetherby
based company RandomStorm conducting Web Penetration testing, External
Penetration testing and building wireless analysis solutions. Tom found
a vulnerability in WordPress back in February 2010 which helped him
kickstart his career in infosec whilst still studying. Previously the
Co-host of popular UK student podcast Disaster Protocol Tom now spend
all the time away from that on the upSploit project making sure his team
get stuff done\!

**19:15 - 20:00**

Avoiding the CWE/SANS Top 25 Most Dangerous Programming Errors

*Jason Steer - Solution Architect at Veracode*

The CWE/SANS list of the Top 25 Most Dangerous Programming Errors is
becoming the standard for developing secure applications in large
enterprises. Even the State of New York and the Depository Trust &
Clearing Corporation (DTCC) plan to implement procurement contracts that
include language mandating application security. Whether you manage
internal development activities, work with third party developers or are
developing commercial-of-the-shelf (COTS) applications for enterprises,
your mandate is clear- safeguard your code and avoid the CWE/SANS Top 25
Most Dangerous Programming Errors.

During this presentation, Jason will discuss:

Prevalence of attacks using vulnerabilities listed in the CWE/SANS Top
25

CWE categories illustrated with code snippets in .NET, Java, and other
languages

Impact of attacks on your application and your customers

Methods to identify, track and remediate these vulnerabilities

Session attendees will leave armed with the necessary steps to ensure
that theyâ€™re building secure applications.

**20:00 - 20:45**

OWASP Zed Attack Proxy

*Simon Bennetts - Project Lead and technical team lead at Sage UK*

The Zed Attack Proxy (ZAP) is an easy to use integrated penetration
testing tool for finding vulnerabilities in web applications. It is
designed to be used by people with a wide range of security experience
and as such is ideal for developers and functional testers who a new to
penetration testing.

In this presentation Simon will explain why it was released, who it is
aimed at and where it is headed.