Last revision (mm/dd/yy): **//**

__TOC__

## The OWASP Foundation

The OWASP Foundation came online on
[December 1st, 2001](http://wayback.archive.org/web/*/http://www.owasp.org)
it was established as a not-for-profit charitable organization in the
United States on April 21, 2004, to ensure the ongoing availability and
support for our work at [OWASP](Main_Page "wikilink"). OWASP is an
international organization and the OWASP Foundation supports OWASP
efforts around the world. OWASP is an open community dedicated to
enabling organizations to conceive, develop, acquire, operate, and
maintain applications that can be trusted. All of the OWASP tools,
documents, forums, and chapters are free and open to anyone interested
in improving application security. We advocate approaching application
security as a people, process, and technology problem because the most
effective approaches to application security include improvements in all
of these areas. We can be found at
[www.owasp.org](Main_Page "wikilink").

OWASP is a new kind of organization. Our freedom from commercial
pressures allows us to provide unbiased, practical, cost-effective
information about application security. OWASP is not affiliated with any
technology company, although we support the informed use of commercial
security technology. Similar to many open-source software projects,
OWASP produces many types of materials in a collaborative and open way.
The [OWASP Foundation](OWASP_Foundation "wikilink") is a not-for-profit
entity that ensures the project's long-term success.

[<https://www.owasp.org/images/9/98/Btn_cofollow_badge.png>](http://www.linkedin.com/companies/owasp)

### OWASP Foundation Bylaws

The business of the OWASP Foundation Inc. is outlined in the
organizational [by-laws](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/By-law). These
by-laws govern the organization worldwide and allow the participants to
understand the established process for doing so.

[OWASP Foundation ByLaws](OWASP_Foundation_ByLaws "wikilink")

[OWASP EU Foundation ByLaws (English
Translation)](https://www.owasp.org/images/9/90/126741_OWASP_vzw_modelstatuten_v0.9_EN_REV.pdf)

[Local Chapter ByLaws](Local_Chapter_ByLaws "wikilink")

## Core Values

<b>OPEN</b> Everything at OWASP is radically transparent from our
finances to our code.

<b>INNOVATION</b> OWASP encourages and supports innovation and
experiments for solutions to software security challenges.

<b>GLOBAL</b> Anyone around the world is encouraged to participate in
the OWASP community.

<b>INTEGRITY</b> OWASP is an honest and truthful, vendor neutral, global
community.

## Core Purpose

Be the thriving global community that drives visibility and evolution in
the safety and security of the world’s software.

## Code of Ethics

Each of us is expected to behave according to the principles contained
in the following Code of Ethics. Breaches of the Code of Ethics may
result in the foundation taking disciplinary action. [Membership
Revocation](https://www.owasp.org/index.php/Membership_Revocation)

  - Perform all professional activities and duties in accordance with
    all applicable laws and the highest ethical principles;
  - Promote the implementation of and promote compliance with standards,
    procedures, controls for application security;
  - Maintain appropriate confidentiality of proprietary or otherwise
    sensitive information encountered in the course of professional
    activities;
  - Discharge professional responsibilities with diligence and honesty;
  - To communicate openly and honestly;
  - Refrain from any activities which might constitute a conflict of
    interest or otherwise damage the reputation of employers, the
    information security profession, or the Association;
  - To maintain and affirm our objectivity and independence;
  - To reject inappropriate pressure from industry or others;
  - Not intentionally injure or impugn the professional reputation of
    practice of colleagues, clients, or employers;
  - Treat everyone with respect and dignity; and
  - To avoid relationships that impair — or may appear to impair —
    OWASP's objectivity and independence.

## Principles

  - Free & Open
  - Governed by rough consensus & running code
  - Abide by a code of ethics (see ethics)
  - Not-for-profit
  - Not driven by commercial interests
  - Risk-based approach

## 2018 Elected by Membership, Global Board Members

[OWASP Board
History](https://www.owasp.org/index.php/OWASP_Board_History)

![120 px](Owasp_logo_icon.jpg "120 px")
\==== [Martin Knobloch](User:Knoblochmartin "wikilink"): Chairman ====

The Chairman of the Board shall serve as the principal executive officer
of the Foundation.

**Fiduciary responsibilities**: He/She shall, in general, supervise and
control all of the business and affairs of the Foundation. He/She will
monitor financial planning and financial reports He/She or he may sign,
with the Secretary or any other proper officer of the Foundation
thereunto authorized by the Board of Directors, any deeds, mortgages,
bonds, contracts, or other instruments which the Board of Directors has
authorized to be executed, except in cases where the signing and
execution thereof shall be expressly delegated by the Board of Directors
or by these Bylaws to some other officer or agent of the Foundation or
shall be required by law to be otherwise signed or executed;

**Leadership and Direction**: provides leadership to the Board of
Directors with regards to policy setting and strategic planning. He/She
helps guide and mediate board actions with respect to organizational
priorities and governance concerns, and in general, shall perform all
duties incident to the office of Chairman of the Board subject to the
control of the Board of Directors.

**Organizational Responsibilities**: He/She plays a leading role in
fundraising activities, formally evaluate the performance of the
Foundation Director and informally evaluate the effectiveness of the
board members. An annual, overall evaluation of the performance of the
organization in achieving its mission will be accomplished. He or she
shall, when present, preside at all meetings of the Board of Directors
unless otherwise delegated, and such other duties as may be prescribed
by the Board of Directors from time to time.

![120 px](Owasp_logo_icon.jpg "120 px")

#### [Owen Pendlebury](User:Owen_Pendlebury "wikilink"): Vice Chairman

Performs Chair responsibilities when the Chair cannot be available,
works closely with Chair and other Board Members, participates closely
with Chair to develop and implement officer transition plans, performs
other responsibilities as assigned by the Board. ­


![120 px](Owasp_logo_icon.jpg "120 px")

#### [Sherif Mansour](User:vanderaj "wikilink"): Treasurer

Treasurer ­manages finances of the organization, administers fiscal
matters of the organization, provides annual budget to the board for
member’s approval, ensures development and board review of financial
policies and procedures.


![120 px](Owasp_logo_icon.jpg "120 px")

#### [Ofer Maor](User:Ofer_Maor "wikilink"): Secretary

Maintains records of the board and ensures effective management of
organization’s records, manages minutes of board meetings, ensures
minutes are distributed shortly after each meeting, is sufficiently
familiar with legal documents (articles, by­laws, IRS letters, etc.) to
note applicability during meetings; is the custodian of the corporate
records and of the seal of the Foundation and see that the seal of the
Foundation is affixed to all documents, the execution of which on behalf
of the Foundation under its seal is duly authorized; keeps a register of
the post office address of each Director which shall be furnished to the
Secretary by such Director; and, in general perform all duties incident
to the office of the Secretary and such other duties as from time to
time may be assigned to him by the Chairman of the Board or by the
Board.

![120 px](Owasp_logo_icon.jpg "120 px")

#### [Richard Greenberg](User:Richard_greenberg "wikilink"): Member at Large




![120 px](Owasp_logo_icon.jpg "120 px")


#### [Gary Robinson](User:Gary_Robinson "wikilink"): Member at Large




![120 px](Owasp_logo_icon.jpg "120 px")


#### [Chenxi Wang](User:Chenxiwang "wikilink"): Member at Large






## Employees and Contractors

  - Additional [staff and HR
    info](https://www.owasp.org/index.php/About_OWASP/HR)

## Meeting Minutes

The OWASP Foundation Board meets monthly.

[Board meeting minutes for the record.](OWASP_Board_Meetings "wikilink")

[Global Initiatives
Meetings](https://docs.google.com/folder/d/0B5Z9zE0hx0LNZ0pqZC1QWWRTM28/edit)

## Operational Procedures

[Standard Operations Procedures
(SOP)](https://www.owasp.org/index.php/About_OWASP/Operational-Procedures)

## Licensing

All OWASP materials are available under an approved [FLOSS
license](OWASP_Licenses "wikilink"). For more information, please see
the **[OWASP Licenses](OWASP_Licenses "wikilink")** page.

## Participation and Membership

Everyone is welcome to participate in our
[forums](https://lists.owasp.org/mailman/listinfo),
[projects](projects "wikilink"), [chapters](chapters "wikilink"), and
[conferences](conferences "wikilink"). OWASP is a fantastic place to
learn about application security, to network, and even to build your
reputation as an expert.

If you find the OWASP materials valuable, please consider supporting our
cause by becoming an OWASP member. All monies received by the OWASP
Foundation go directly into supporting OWASP projects.

For more information, please see the
**[Membership](Membership "wikilink")** page.

## Projects

OWASP's projects cover many aspects of application security. We build
documents, tools, teaching environments, guidelines, checklists, and
other materials to help organizations improve their capability to
produce secure code.

For details on all the OWASP projects, please see the **[OWASP
Project](:Category:OWASP_Project "wikilink")** page.

## Privacy Policy

Given OWASP’s mission to help organizations with application security,
you have the right to expect protection of any personal information that
we might collect about our members.

In general, we do not require authentication or ask visitors to reveal
personal information when visiting our website. We collect Internet
addresses, not the e-mail addresses, of visitors solely for use in
calculating various website statistics.

We may ask for certain personal information, including name and email
address from persons downloading OWASP products. This information is not
divulged to any third party and is used only for the purposes of:

  - Communicating urgent fixes in the OWASP Materials
  - Seeking advice and feedback about OWASP Materials
  - Inviting participation in OWASP’s consensus process and AppSec
    conferences

OWASP publishes a list of member organizations and individual members.
Listing is purely voluntary and "opt-in." Listed members can request not
to be listed at any time.

All information about you or your organization that you send us by fax
or mail is physically protected. If you have any questions or concerns
about our privacy policy, please [Contact
Us](https://owasporg.atlassian.net/servicedesk/customer/portal/7/group/18/create/72)

## Membership or Donations

If you are interested in joining OWASP as a member, or donating funds
for OWASP's efforts, please check out the [OWASP Membership
Page](Membership "wikilink").

[2015 Annual Report](:File:OWASP_Annual_Report_2015.pdf "wikilink")

## Contacting OWASP

The easiest way to contact the [OWASP
Foundation](OWASP_Foundation "wikilink") is via e-mail. If you have a
question concerning a particular project, we <b>strongly</b> recommend
using the [mailing list](https://lists.owasp.org/mailman/listinfo) for
that project. Many questions can also be answered by
[searching](https://www.owasp.org/google/results.html) the
[OWASP](Main_Page "wikilink") web site, so please check there first.

Our global address for general correspondence and faxes can be sent to
our physical office address, at:

` OWASP Foundation`
` 1200-C Agora Drive, #232`
` Bel Air, MD 21014`
` US`
`+1 951-692-7703 (phone)`
`+1 443-283-4021 (fax)`
` `[`Contact``
 ``Us`](https://owasporg.atlassian.net/servicedesk/customer/portal/7/group/18/create/72)

The European correspondence address is below. More information is
available on the OWASP [Europe](Europe "wikilink") page.

` OWASP Europe VZW`
` Leinstraat 104A`
` B-9660 Opbrakel`
` Belgium`
` `[`Contact``
 ``Us`](https://owasporg.atlassian.net/servicedesk/customer/portal/7/group/18/create/72)

For more information, please see the pages listed below:

  - [Contributions](Contributions "wikilink") for details about how to
    make contributions
  - [Advertising](Advertising "wikilink") if you're interested in
    advertising on the OWASP site
  - [How OWASP Works](How_OWASP_Works "wikilink") for more information
    about projects and governance
  - [OWASP brand usage rules](OWASP_brand_usage_rules "wikilink") for
    information about using the OWASP brand
  - [About OWASP Presentation (Google
    Docs)](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/10wi1EWFCPZwCpkB6qZaBNN8mR2XfQs8sLxcj9SCsP6c/edit?pref=2&pli=1#slide=id.p4)

[Category:Popular](Category:Popular "wikilink")