The chapter leaders are **khalifa.alshamsi@owasp.org**,
**tudor.enache@owasp.org** and **zayed.aljaberi@owasp.org**.

![AD-OWASP.png](AD-OWASP.png "AD-OWASP.png")

# Workshops

### Security Training Session in Abu Dhabi

It is always a pleasure to talk to bright students about security topics
and cool hacking tricks. Khalifa & Tudor went to HCT on April 2014 as
UAE OWASP Chapter Leaders and presented real hacking demo’s on Web and
Mobile Applications to the students.

In the middle of April 2015, Tudor has conducted another great session
about different topics in Security which mainly focused on guiding the
students in the Information Security field to approach their targets and
choose their career paths to become successful security professionals.

### Abu Dhabi Colleges’ Students Enjoy Web Security Workshops

Senior Computer Information Science (CIS) students at the HCT-Abu Dhabi
Colleges, studying for their Bachelor of Applied Science in Information
Systems (Security and Forensics), recently attended Web Security
workshops to learn about web application security from an industry
expert.

Students enjoyed the sessions by guest speaker Tudor Enache, a member of
the Open Web Application Security Project’s (OWASP) Abu Dhabi Chapter.
OWASP is an online community dedicated to web application security, and
is a worldwide not-for-profit organisation that creates freely available
documentation and articles, methodologies, tools and technologies.

The workshops covered different topics in cyber security, and included
explanations of the importance of cyber security, history’s most
critical security breaches and hackers’ common arsenals. Students
enjoyed a live demonstration on exploiting a vulnerability in IOS that
allows users to bypass the restrictions pass code.

Students benefited from both sessions that provided an excellent
opportunity to look at the web application security field from a
professional perspective, as well as finding out about potential career
paths in information security.

HCT-Abu Dhabi Colleges will continue to develop the relationship with
the OWASP Abu Dhabi chapter to host future workshops to expose students
to the latest technologies and threats in web application security.

“The OWASP Session was really useful. We got to know the history behind
computers, internet and viruses created. We also got to see and use the
USB Rubber Ducky and the Raspberry Pi device. Overall, we figured out
how to become security professionals,” said semester-7 student Fatima
Fatema Al Hajeri.

“The OWASP presentation was very useful for us as security students. The
presenter covers most common vulnerabilities in web applications. The
session covered the history of hacking and recent huge attacks and this
helps us to know how big and interesting the security field is,” said

# Tools & Softwares

#### WESECURE APP

*wesecure is an app for smartphones that post everything related to
security 24/7. Advance way to provide information for the end users.*

*Link: <https://itunes.apple.com/ae/app/wesecure/id1106756200?mt=8>*

*Wesecure Promo video: <https://youtu.be/tiDD2EjLgT4>*

#### URL-fuzzing

*Advance URL Fuzzing + Whois Domain running on python*

*Link: <https://github.com/zayedaljaberi/urlfuzzing>*

*Link:
<http://seclist.us/urlfuzzing-advance-url-fuzzing-whois-domain.html>*

#### Block Tor Users

*Method to block tor users to access your website.*

*Link: <https://github.com/zayedaljaberi/block-tor-users>*

*Demo: <https://youtu.be/xrbT0m9V2Hw>*

#### FakeCMS Honeypot research

*This honeypot made to attract Hackers to your admin or login page.
Mostly, they usually check website under "login" "admin" or "wp-admin".
By using this method you will be able to let them trap into your
honeypot and get attackers IP, Location, Use-agent and more. Our
honeypot are modified to deny sort methods of spamming.*

*Home Link: <http://home.wesecure.ae/honeypot_fakecms>*

*Link: <https://github.com/zayedaljaberi/honeypot_fakecms>*

#### Malware Scanner List

*Multi-online malware scanner contain useful websites.*

*Home Link: <http://check.wesecure.ae/>*

#### Bypass CCTV login

*process to hack into the CCTV camera system in just 30 seconds*

*Doc:
<https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/10cmvMBh_jBuebClGNgqYbOily8G0RojM7osS88xNllA/edit?usp=sharing>*

*PoC: <https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=qEZ11YdG-HI>*

# What Written About Us

#### <http://www.ehacking.net/2016/05/wesecure-fakecms-honeypot-to-stop.html>

#### <http://www.ehacking.net/2016/08/hacking-cctv-camera-system-in-30-seconds.html>

#### <http://www.ehacking.net/2016/06/Block-TOR-users-access-website.html>

#### <https://twitter.com/PenTestMag/status/806861392942923776>

#### <https://hackertor.com/2016/12/25/urlfuzzing-advance-url-fuzzing-whois-domain/>

# Documents & Articles

**Think Like A Hacker**

Chapter
1 : https://drive.google.com/file/d/0B7KHrkc6aF3IbTd1Q0JYSGRYME0/view?usp=sharing

Chapter 2 : https://goo.gl/zC2pdI

What is Ransomware: https://goo.gl/aVpM94

Advance Load Balancing: https://goo.gl/0x3aoR

Native vs Hybrid (Apps): https://goo.gl/Xf0g8c

Everything About VPN: https://goo.gl/fseLQh

Google Hacking: https://goo.gl/U8a5yu

Basic Networking II: https://goo.gl/fCHyvw

Is your website Secure?: https://goo.gl/8QPVrQ

Basic Linux, Windows
CLI: https://drive.google.com/file/d/0B7KHrkc6aF3IcmpUb3lsZy1zWHc/view

Basic blocking unwanted websites: https://goo.gl/i0F7AZ

Security using .htaccess: https://goo.gl/JqZywC

Block tor users to access your
website: https://www.linkedin.com/pulse/block-tor-users-access-your-website-zayed-aljaberi?trk=pulse_spock-articles

Microsoft spying on
you\!: https://www.linkedin.com/pulse/microsoft-spying-you-zayed-aljaberi?trk=pulse_spock-articles

My First
Honeypot: https://www.linkedin.com/pulse/hack-my-website-zayed-aljaberi?trk=pulse_spock-articles

[Category:Chapter](Category:Chapter "wikilink")
[Category:Asia/Pacific/Middle
East](Category:Asia/Pacific/Middle_East "wikilink")