## The presentation

![Michael_Coates.jpg](Michael_Coates.jpg "Michael_Coates.jpg")SSL has
taken many hits over the past year. From the MD5 rogue certificate
creation to SSL Strip, it seems that SSL should be dead and gone.
However, SSL is still one of the fundamental security patterns used to
protect data in transit. Unfortunately, SSL is widely misunderstood.
It's time to take a breath and make sure everyone knows what we are
really doing when we implement SSL. This will be an advanced talk that
will focus on understanding the entire lifecycle of SSL. How does it
work, what are the weaknesses and what's going on with the recent SSL
attacks? We will address issues such as: How does SSL really work? Is
redirecting from HTTP to HTTPS safe? Does the landing page need to be
SSL? How bad are those browser warnings? What tools are available and
how do I test my server's SSL configuration? Should I be concerned about
the MD5 rogue certificate or SSL strip? These questions and more will be
answered. This presentation will not be a basic intro to SSL talk. This
will be a turbo talk of drinking from the SSL security fire hose. It is
intended for security audiences already familiar with the basics of SSL
and encryption.

## The speaker

Michael Coates is a Senior Application Security Engineer for Aspect
Security and has performed numerous penetration assessments, security
code reviews, and security training sessions for leading corporations
worldwide. Michael is the creator and leader of the AppSensor project
and holds a Masters Degree in Computer Security from DePaul University.

[Category:OWASP_AppSec_DC_09](Category:OWASP_AppSec_DC_09 "wikilink")