## Local News

**OWASP Albany Chapter Meeting**

**Date:** Thursday, September 20th, 2018

**Time:** 11:00am - 2:00pm EST

**Location:** University at Albany, Campus Center Room 375, 1400
Washington Avenue, Albany, NY 12222

**Registration:**
<https://www.eventbrite.com/e/open-web-application-security-project-tickets-49140621923>

**Theme:** *Confessions of a Recovering Software Developer: Analytical
Engines, Parking Tickets, and Cybersecurity*

Welcome toÂ Open Web Application Security Project (OWASP) Albany
Chapter's first meeting\! OWASP is a worldwide not-for-profit charitable
organization focused on improving the security of software. Our mission
is to make software security visible so that individuals and
organizations are able to make informed decisions. OWASP is in a unique
position to provide impartial, practical information about AppSec to
individuals, corporations, universities, government agencies and other
organizations worldwide. Operating as a community of like-minded
professionals, OWASP issues software tools and knowledge-based
documentation on application security.

**Keynote:** Code. Software. Source. Migraine-producing hallucinogen. It
goes by many names, but all lead to one undeniable truth - the simple
concept of automating calculations with a machine has changed society,
our world, and humanity itself. From automating simple tasks to saving
lives, software has improved every part of life, but at what cost? Our
cars, toasters, and iPhones work tirelessly on our behalf, but these
advances have also introduced new risks. Today's "operating system" is a
complex - and vulnerable - ecosystem of iPhones, Twitter accounts and,
missile defense systems. The question now is, what do we do about it?

Join GreyCastle Security CEO Reg Harnish in a frank conversation about
the evolution of computer software, the risks that have been introduced
by computers and the solutions that will keep us safer into the future.

*Lunch will be provided\!*

**Sponsors:** Troy Web Consulting <https://www.troyweb.com/> | UAlbany
CEHC <https://www.albany.edu/cehc/>

[Category:OWASP Chapter](Category:OWASP_Chapter "wikilink")