## The presentation

![Owasp_logo_normal.jpg](Owasp_logo_normal.jpg
"Owasp_logo_normal.jpg")Traditional vulnerabilities like SQL Injection,
buffer overflows, etc, have well established techniques for discovery
and prevention. On the other hand, logic flaws are incredibly diverse
and often unique to the specific application or business organization.
Because of this, logic flaws have taken on a near mythical status. In
the myth, logic flaws are nearly impossible to find until the elite of
the elite hackers launch an attack to completely own the application.
The reality is far different; logic flaws are not the complex nightmare
that many have made them out to be. This presentation will use
real-world examples to show how logic flaws are typically introduced
into an application, how they can be consistently detected during
testing, and how they can be prevented during development. Instead of
hoping for magic, repeatable processes will be outlined for each of
those items. This will prove beneficial to anyone responsible for
application security: programmers, architects, managers, and pen
testers.

## The speaker

David Byrne has worked in information security for almost a decade.
Currently, he is a consultant in Trustwave's Application Penetration
Testing group. Before Trustwave, David was the Security Architect at
Dish Network. In 2006, he started the Denver chapter of OWASP. In 2008,
he released Grendel (grendel-scan.com), an open source web application
security scanner. David has presented at a number of security events
including DEFCON, Black Hat, Toorcon, FROC, and the SANS penetration
testing summit. Charles Henderson has been in the security industry for
over 15 years and manages the Application Penetration Testing and Code
Review Practice at Trustwave. He has specialized in application security
testing and application security assessment throughout his career but
has also worked in physical security testing and network security
testing.

[Category:OWASP_AppSec_DC_09](Category:OWASP_AppSec_DC_09 "wikilink")