Andrew van der Stock has over 20 years experience as a developer, system
administrator, security architect, and a leader of the application
security field. He has worked extensively throughout Australia and the
USA.

Andrew has unparalleled technical knowledge to delve as deep as it
takes, whilst being able to explain technical risks in a strategic
business context to boards and senior executives. Andrew prides himself
on being a secure business enabler, producing innovative ideas and
solutions that create competitive advantage whilst meeting difficult
regulatory and compliance requirements.

Andrew joined OWASP in late 2002/early 2003, to indulge his passion for
information sharing by participating in and then leading the Developer
Guide project, culminating in the OWASP Guide to Building Secure
Software 2.0 in 2005. He wrote the OWASP Top 10 2007, initiated and led
the OWASP ESAPI for PHP effort, currently leads the OWASP Developer
Guide and OWASP Proactive Controls projects, and is an author of the
forthcoming OWASP Application Security Verification Standard 2.0. Andrew
has previously held the Executive Director position at OWASP, and was a
member of the OWASP Global Chapters Committee, and is the long time
moderator of the Symantec SecurityFocus webappsec mailing list.

Andrew is a regular speaker and trainer at industry conferences,
including BlackHat, linux.conf.au, AusCERT, and OWASP. His next speaking
engagement is at OWASP AppSec USA in New York City in November.

Andrew was awarded the SC Magazine / AusCERT Award for Individual
Excellence in Information Security 2013. He is nominated for an OWASP
WASPY award.

For his professional background (not OWASP related), please see
[LinkedIn](http://au.linkedin.com/in/vanderaj). I am the technical lead
for the national security practice at KPMG Australia.

For additional information, please see his
[User](User:vanderaj "wikilink") page.