![468x60-banner-2010.gif](468x60-banner-2010.gif
"468x60-banner-2010.gif")

[Registration](https://guest.cvent.com/EVENTS/Register/IdentityConfirmation.aspx?e=d52c6f5f-d568-4e16-b8e0-b5e2bf87ab3a)
|
[Hotel](https://resweb.passkey.com/Resweb.do?mode=welcome_gi_new&groupID=2766908)
| [Walter E. Washington Convention
Center](http://www.dcconvention.com/)
\== The presentation ==

![Dan_Cornell_web.jpg](Dan_Cornell_web.jpg "Dan_Cornell_web.jpg")Far
too often application security decisions are made in an ad hoc manner
and based on little or no data. This leads to an inefficient allocation
of scarce resources. To move beyond fear, uncertainty and doubt,
organizations must adopt an approach to application risk management
based on a structured process and quantitative data. This talk outlines
such an approach for organizations to enumerate all the applications in
their portfolio. It then goes through background information to collect
for each application to support further decision-making. In addition,
the talk presents an application risk-ranking framework allowing
security analysts to quantitatively categorize their application assets
and then plan for assessment activities based on available budgets.
Attendees will leave with the knowledge and tools required for them to
use the approach on the applications they are responsible for in their
organization. Template spreadsheets and a How-To guide will also be
provided.

## Dan Cornell

Dan Cornell has over twelve years of experience architecting and
developing web-based software systems. He leads Denim Groupâ€™s security
research team in investigating the application of secure coding and
development techniques to improve web-based software development
methodologies.

Dan was the founding coordinator and chairman for the Java Users Group
of San Antonio (JUGSA) and currently serves as the OWASP San Antonio
chapter leader, member of the OWASP Global Membership Committee and
co-lead of the OWASP Open Review Project. Dan has spoken at such
international conferences as ROOTs in Norway and OWASP EU Summit in
Portugal.

[Category:AppSec_DC_2010_Presentations](Category:AppSec_DC_2010_Presentations "wikilink")
[Category:FIXME/historical](Category:FIXME/historical "wikilink")