**Title: Agile Security - Breaking the Waterfall Mindset of the Security
Industry**

Although Agile is taking software development by storm, the security
industry has been skeptical or downright critical. Dave will share
Aspect’s experiences rearchitecting security activities so they work
with an Agile approach. He'll show how to start with a high-level threat
model, create stakeholder security stories, define functional tests for
security controls, use automated tools, perform periodic security
sprints, and perform Agile security reviews to build an assurance
argument that’s potentially even stronger than a traditional one.

**About the Speaker:** Dave Wichers is a cofounder and Chief Operating
Officer (COO) of [Aspect Security](http://www.aspectsecurity.com), a
company that specializes in application security services. Dave is also
a member of the OWASP board, is the [OWASP Conferences
Chair](:Category:OWASP_AppSec_Conference "wikilink"), and is a coauthor
of the [OWASP Top Ten](OWASP_Top_Ten_Project "wikilink"). OWASP is a
worldwide free and open community focused on improving the security of
application software. Mr. Wichers has over 20 years of experience in the
information security field, and has focused exclusively on application
security for the past 10 years. At Aspect, in addition to his COO
duties, he is Aspect's application security courseware lead, one of
their chief instructors, and provides a wide variety of application
security consulting services to Aspect's clients. Prior to starting
Aspect, he ran the Application Security Services Group at Exodus
Communications. Mr. Wichers has a Bachelors and Masters degree in
Computer Science, is a CISSP, and a CISM.