

# Call For Presentations

The annual [OWASP AppSec Israel
Conference](AppSec_Israel_2015 "wikilink") will take place this year on
Tuesday, October 13th, 2015. The conference will be held this year in
The College of Management (Michlala l’Minhal), in Rishon LeZion.

OWASP AppSec Israel is the largest conference in Israel for application
security, and regularly draws over hundreds of participants. Last year
more than 450 attended – a great chance to present in front of a large
audience of professionals\!

In order to ensure fascinating lectures as every year, we are opening a
Call for Presentations and anyone is invited to submit a proposal for a
presentation. (See below for link to submission form.)

We would like to emphasize that we usually receive many more proposals
than the number of slots we have for lectures at the conference. We
apologize in advance that we cannot include all worthy proposals.
However, this should not discourage anyone from submitting\! It is
important to the conference committee to have a variety of speakers, and
even if you've never done this before we will ensure that you have the
support needed to give a great talk.

Please email [Erez Metula](mailto:erezmetula@appsec-labs.com) for any
issues or to discuss. (Don't email proposals to him, though, see below
for link to submission form.)



## Dates and Deadlines

Due to popular demand, we have extended the deadline for submissions.

  - ~~**SUBMISSION DEADLINE: September 16, 2015**~~
  - Notification of acceptance: September 24, 2015
  - Final materials due for review: October 6, 2015
  - Conference proceedings: October 13, 2015

Please make sure to submit your proposal before the deadline, to allow
us enough time to review all the proposals and select the best ones, and
still notify everybody with enough time. Only submissions entered into
this form will be considered. In order to ensure that we can give
serious consideration to the content of the lecture, please make sure
your submission is as complete and specific as possible.

## Tracks

The Conference will include 2 lecture tracks. The division of these
tracks will be decided based on submissions. In previous years it was
divided either according to more technical / less technical slant, or
mostly aligned with OWASP's Builders / Breakers / Defenders
nomenclature:

1.  **Builders**
    *Targeting developers, testers, and managers involved in the secure
    software development lifecycle.*
2.  **Breakers**
    *Focusing on matters relevant to penetration testers, researchers,
    and other security professionals.*
3.  **Defenders**
    *Emphasizing operations issues affecting infrastructure security
    teams, administrators, support, etc.*
4.  **Policy and Legal**
    *Addressing privacy, compliance, and legal issues affecting
    development and security communities.*

### Topics of Interest

In general, there is no restriction on the subject of the talks, as long
as the topic is related to Application Security (not necessarily Web).
We will not accept any talks regarding other aspects of Security, that
are not applicative in nature. Talks at any technical level can be
accepted.

We especially appreciate talks from security folk in large organizations
("security consumers") who can share different Case Studies from the
field.

Specifically, the topics we look for include, but are not limited to,
the following subject areas:

  - **Secure development**: secure coding, static analysis, application
    threat modelling, web frameworks security, countermeasures, SDLC,
    DevOps, etc.
  - **Mobile security**: Development and/or testing devices and the
    mobile web
  - **Cloud security**: Offensive and defensive considerations for
    cloud-based web applications
  - **Infrastructure security**: Database security, VoIP, hardware,
    identity management
  - **Penetration testing**: Methodologies, tools, exploit development,
    evasion techniques, OSINT, etc.
  - **Emerging web technologies** and associated security considerations
  - **Incident response**: Threat detection, triage, malware analysis,
    forensics, rootkit detection
  - **OWASP tools and projects** in practice
  - **Policy and legal**: Legislation, privacy, regulations and
    compliance, C-level considerations, etc.
  - **Cool hacks and other fun stuff**: cryptography, social
    engineering, etc.

## Submission

Please use [this form to submit your
proposal](http://goo.gl/forms/hk5c4U9Ku3).

Only submissions entered into this form will be considered.

All OWASP speakers need to abide by the [Speaker
Agreement](Speaker_Agreement "wikilink") and must provide written
agreement to the OWASP Speaker Agreement after notification of
acceptance.

If you have any issues or need to discuss this with a committee member,
please email [Erez Metula](mailto:erezmetula@appsec-labs.com). (Please
do not email him proposals, though, only via the submission form.)



[Category:Israel](Category:Israel "wikilink")
[Category:AppSec_Israel_2015](Category:AppSec_Israel_2015 "wikilink")