<div class="center" style="width: auto; margin-left: auto; margin-right: auto;">

![<File:USA> 2017 Header.jpg](USA_2017_Header.jpg
"File:USA 2017 Header.jpg")

</div>



<div class="center" style="width: auto; margin-left: auto; margin-right: auto;">

We are excited to announce that OWASP will once again be holding a two
day Developer Summit at [AppSecUSA 2017](https://2017.appsecusa.org/) on
September 19 & 20, 2017 in Room Coronado N\&P. OWASP is providing a
structured platform for Developers two days prior to the AppSec USA 2017
conference. The Developer Summit will consist of sessions geared toward
learning about security vulnerabilities.

There is **no charge** to attend the Developer Summit, so come join us\!
You do not need an AppSec USA 2017 conference ticket to attend the
Developer Summit, however,

we do ask that you [SIGN
UP](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/13Bcus3CXcBbBmnbFlbZN0i08tXpCJJBre026s7c1vWQ/edit#gid=0)
so we have an estimated headcount to be sure we have enough space and
food.

</div>


\=AGENDA=

![Computer_coding_image.jpeg](Computer_coding_image.jpeg
"Computer_coding_image.jpeg")

**Day 1: Half Day Morning Session**

Date: Tuesday, September 19, 2017

Time: 10am-1pm

Location: [AppSec USA 2017 Room: Coronado
N\&P](https://2017.appsecusa.org/)

Presenter: Robert Hurlbut

About Robert: Robert Hurlbut is an independent software security
consultant and trainer based in Enfield, CT. Robert is a Microsoft MVP
for Developer Technologies and Security and holds the (ISC)2 CSSLP
security certification. Robert has 30 years of industry experience in
software security, software architecture, and software development. You
can follow Robert on his blog at https://roberthurlbut.com/blog and on
Twitter at https://twitter.com/roberthurlbut.com and each week as a
co-host of the Application Security Podcast
at https://www.appsecpodcast.org.

**Using OWASP Threat Dragon for Threat Modeling**

OWASP Threat Dragon is a new OWASP project that introduces a threat
modeling tool that is portable (able to be used on the web in various
platforms), integrates well with build process, and is a great tool to
introduce to developers and teams. This developer hands-on session will
focus on introducing the Threat Dragon tool, best ways to use the tool
in a day-to-day developer environment, and making it part of the CI
implementation (including integration with Jenkins, etc.).

**What will be discussed?**

  - OWASP Threat Dragon, Threat Modeling

**What will attendees learn from attending this session?**

  - Using the the OWASP Threat Dragon tool to help with Threat Modeling
    diagrams and maintenance.

**Items attendees are required to bring with them**

  - Laptop, GitHub profile

![Computer_coding_image.jpeg](Computer_coding_image.jpeg
"Computer_coding_image.jpeg")

**Day 1: Half Day Afternoon Session**

Date: Tuesday, September 19, 2017

Time: 2pm-5pm

Location: [AppSec USA 2017 Room: Coronado
N\&P](https://2017.appsecusa.org/)

Presenters: Nicole Becher and Tanya Janca

**Hacking APIs and Web Services with OWASP DevSlop & PIXI\!**

Modern applications often use APIs and other micro services to deliver
faster and better products and services. However, there are currently
few training grounds for security testing in such areas. In comes
DevSlop, OWASP's newest project, a collection of DevOps security
disasters made as a vulnerable testing and proving ground for developers
and security testers alike. DevSlop's Pixi, the first of many entries to
come for this OWASP project, will be demonstrated and presenting for
participant's hacking and learning pleasure. Pixi consists of vulnerable
web services, and participants will be walked through how to exploit
several of it's vulnerabilities so they can learn how to do better when
they create their own web services and other types of APIs from now on.

**What will be discussed?**

  - API and Web Service Hacking & OWASP Project DevSlop

**What will attendees learn from attending this session?**

  - How to hack APIs and web services

**Items attendees are required to bring with them**

  - A laptop with a web proxy and modern web browser. Admin Priv on your
    machine.

![Computer_image.jpeg](Computer_image.jpeg "Computer_image.jpeg")

**Day 2: Full Day Session**

Date: Wednesday, September 20, 2017

Time: 9am-5pm

Location: [AppSec USA 2017 Room: Coronado
N\&P](https://2017.appsecusa.org/)

Presenter: Swaroop Yermalkar

**Extreme iOS App Exploitation, Defense and ARM Exploitation**

Detailed training contents: https://goo.gl/swp7F8 iOS has become one of
the most popular mobile operating systems with more than 1.4 million
apps available in the iOS App Store. Some security weaknesses in any of
these applications or on the system could mean that an attacker can get
access to the device and retrieve sensitive information. This training
will show you how to conduct a wide range of penetration tests on iOS
applications to uncover vulnerabilities and strengthen the system from
attacks. Extreme iOS App Exploitation, Defense and ARM Exploitation is a
14 hrs session which will help you conduct end to end pentesting of iOS
Applications and will also help you to understand the security measures
which needs to be taken. This training will also have CTF challenge
where attendees will use their skills learnt in session. To attend this
hands-on session, all you have to do is bring your macbook with xcode
installed on it.

**What will be discussed?**

Module 1: Introducing iOS App Security

  - iOS security model
  - App Signing
  - App Sandboxing
  - App Provisioning
  - Changes in iOS 8/9/10

Module 2: Setting up lab

  - Setting up iOS Simulators
  - Jailbreaking basics
  - App signing
  - Setting up jailbroken iDevices (we will provide you)

Module 3: Exploiting iOS Application

  - Exploiting Local Data Storage Flaws
      - Keychain Storage
      - Data Storage in SQLite
      - Data Storage in Core Data
      - Data Storage in Realm database
      - Data Storage in YAP database
      - Data Storage in NSUserDefaults
  - Attacking URL Schemes
  - Broken Cryptography attacks and challenges
  - Exploiting SQL Injection
  - Exploiting XSS Attacks
  - Sealing up side channel data leakage

Module 4: Exploiting Broken Cryptography

  - Exploiting flaws in payment gateways
  - Crypto challenges

Module 5: Exploiting Key Management

  - Hardcoded keys
  - Storing keys server side
  - Generating random keys
  - CTF challenge

Module 6: Runtime Analysis of iOS Application

  - Runtime analysis using cycript
  - Runtime analysis using gdb with ARM Basics
  - Runtime analysis using lldb
  - Runtime analysis using Snoop-it
  - Runtime analysis using Frida
  - Bypassing jailbreak detection
  - Bypassing piracy detection
  - CTF Challenge

Module 7: Reverse Engineering and binary analysis

  - Reversing encrypted binaries
  - Checking for PIE, ARC
  - Reversing un-encrypted binaries
  - Disassembling using Hopper
  - Disassembling using IDA
  - iOS App binary patching
  - String analysis
  - CTF Challenge

Module 8: Analyzing iOS Network traffic

  - Intercepting HTTP traffic
  - Intercepting HTTPS traffic
  - Bypassing SSL Pinning
  - Attacking Weak Server Side Controls
  - CTF Challenge

Module 9: Exploring iOS Pentest automation frameworks

  - Needle Framework
  - IDB

Module 10: iOS Secure Coding

  - 1\. iOS Static Code review

<!-- end list -->

  - 2\. Understanding best practices for
      - a. Defending local data storage flaws
      - b. Preventing runtime protection
      - c. Key management
      - d.Defending crypto attacks
      - e. Defending side channel data leaks attacks

Module 11: iOS ARM Exploitation

  - ARM Assembly
  - Executing first ARM program on iDevice
  - ROP (Return Oriented Programming) Basics
  - Simple stack overflow on iDevices
  - Exploiting Heap Overflow exploit
  - Case studies of recent jailbreaks

**What will attendees learn from attending this presentation?**

  - End to end iOS App Pentesting
  - iOS Secure Coding
  - iOS reverse engineering, runtime analysis
  - Encryption key management, Defending crypto attacks
  - ARM Exploitation (basics)
  - Designing secure iOS applications

**Items attendees will be required to bring with them**

  - Macbook with root permission and Xcode (8.2 or above) Installed

<div class="center" style="width: auto; margin-left: auto; margin-right: auto;">

More details and the agenda are coming soon\!

Questions? Please submit them [here](https://www.tfaforms.com/308703).

</div>