# Keynotes - Room 1 (Ivcher Auditorium)

### Opening Keynote: Steering a Battleship to a Secure Path – Bringing the product security message to HP Software

''''' Tomer Gershoni, Chief Products Security Officer, HP Software
'''''
([download
presentation](Media:AppSecIL_2014_Steering_the_Battleship_-_Bringing_Product_Security_to_HP_Software_-_Tomer_Gershoni.pptx "wikilink"))

Can we actually make a security mindset change in an enterprise company
where business comes first?

What is the efficient way to establish a product security team in a
de-centralized organization, scattered around the globe with thousands
of employees?

Where to start, who to work with? How to measure success and what is the
management really interested in?

The Security & Trust office was established 18 months ago in HP SW. a
new concept of product security was established with never ending
challenges.

In the session I will describe the journey we embarked on, and focus on
how security success is measured in a multi-billion dollar company - and
how can we achieve real security revenue.


<u>Speaker Bio</u>

Tomer Gershoni is an Information & Cyber Security manager, leading cross
corporate security strategies and agendas for global software and
services organizations.

He has been to the Information Security industry for the more than 12
years in different areas leading different initiatives in different
sectors including: Government (Defense), Telecom and Technology.



### InfoSec Natural Selection - Measuring the VALUE of Security Products

''''' Shay Chen, Researcher, Consultant and Analyst '''''
([download
presentation](Media:AppSecIL_2014_Infosec_Natural_Selection_–_What_SHOULD_Be_Evaluated_FIRST_-_Shay_Chen.pptx "wikilink"))

It should have been easier to make intelligent choices in 2014, deciding
what's right and what's wrong, weeding out the useless from the useful.

However, in reality, the storm of marketing claims, the endless list of
trends, and the sheer number of choices caused the exact opposite.

Would you buy a car you can't drive? Would you pay an ISP that doesn't
provide you any internet services? Many of us do just that when choosing
infosec products.

Furthermore, during infosec product evaluations, the evaluating entity
often ignores key aspects that can get him into a WHOLE LOT OF TROUBLE,
whether he'll be a CISO, system operator, integrator or pen-tester.

Some aspects may simply prevent the products from working, while some
features in these products, if improperly implemented by the vendor or
misused by the user, can cause severe damage to the target
organizations, and as a consequence, make the user / vendor accountable,
and may even lead to lawsuits.

The presentation will focus on key aspects that the consumer/user should
assess prior to selecting information security products (IDS/IPS, WAF,
Monitoring Products) or security assessment products (Scanners, Source
Code Analysis Tools, Exploitation Suites).


<u>Speaker Bio</u>

Shay Chen is a researcher, consultant and analyst, focused on evaluating
products and services in the information security industry.

He is also a prominent blogger and researcher, and is responsible for
many security publications, including new application-level attacks,
testing methodologies and open source projects.

As the author of the ""WAVSEP"" he was involved in the publication of
several large-scale researches in the field of automated security
scanners, including multiple benchmarks published throughout 2010-2014.

Shay is an experienced speaker, has been instructing a variety of
information security courses for the past 9 years, and had multiple
appearances in international conferences, including Blackhat,
Hacktivity, AppSecUSA and others.


<u>Technical Level:</u> Intermediate



# Track 1 (Ivcher Auditorium)

### My Preciousss… Holding on to Your Sensitive Data

''''' Ofer Maor, CTO, Quotium '''''
([download
presentation](Media:AppSecIL_2014_MyPreciousss-HoldingOnToSensitiveData_OferMaor.pdf "wikilink"))

Everybody's spending a lot of energy on application security, and yet
every once and then someone gets hacked. It's not easy to stay ahead.
Applications need to be ultra-secure from a long line of suspicious
malware and marauding hackers, yet hackers only need to find one way in.
But Hackers are now looking for profit, they do not care about code
security or how many vulnerabilities there are (or got fixed). Their aim
is to steal sensitive user data, and if this data would be secured,
other vulnerabilities may become a lot less worrying.

So we all know we need to encrypt our sensitive data, hash our
passwords, drop our CVVs after we use them, but do all our developers
know it? And even if they do, does every component they use know that
too?

Hold on to your Preciousss sensitive data\! We have the solution\!

In this talk we will introduce a new freeware tool, based on state of
the art runtime code analysis technology, for identifying whenever
sensitive data is insecurely handled by your application. We will
discuss different types of common developer mistakes and how they can
cause data leakage, such as writing to a log file, sending to 3rd party
service, etc, and we will demonstrate how this tool can be used as part
of ongoing testing for identifying such issues.


<u>Speaker Bio</u>

Ofer Maor has twenty years of experience in information and application
security.He has been involved in leading research initiatives, has
published numerous papers, regularly appears at leading conferences and
is the pioneer of IAST (Interactive Application Security Testing) - the
newest approach for automated application security testing.

In his current role as founder and CTO of Quotium, Mr. Maor is leading
Seeker® -the new generation of application security, allowing
organizations to effectively protect their business and data from
application threats. He was previously the Founder and CTO of Hacktics™,
where he helped create a world-class leading professional security
services group, later acquired by Ernst & Young to become a global
excellence center. During this time he has also served as the Chairman
of OWASP Israel and was part of the OWASP Global Membership Committee.

Before founding Hacktics, Mr. Maor led Imperva's Application Defense
Center, a research group focused on application security services and
education, where he advanced research activities and was responsible for
all the application security services conducted by the company. He was
previously a Senior Security Consultant at eDvice, an application
security consulting firm, and served for three years as an Information
Security Officer in the Israeli Defense Forces.


<u>Technical Level:</u> Intermediate



### Warning Ahead: Security Storms are Brewing in Your JavaScript

''''' Maty Siman, CTO and Founder, Checkmarx '''''
([download
presentation](Media:AppSecIL_2014_Security_Storms_are_Brewing_in_Your_JavaScript_-_Maty_Siman.pptx "wikilink"))

JavaScript controls our lives – we use it to zoom in and out of a map,
to automatically schedule doctor appointments and to play online games.
But have we ever properly considered the security state of this
scripting language? Before dismissing the (in)security posture of
JavaScript on the grounds of a client-side problem, consider the impact
of JavaScript vulnerability exploitation to the enterprise: from
stealing server-side data to infecting users with malware. Hackers are
beginning to recognize this new playground and are quickly adding
JavaScript exploitation tools to their Web attack arsenal.

In this talk we explore the vulnerabilities behind Javascript,
including:

  - A new class of vulnerabilities unique only to JavaScript
  - Vulnerabilities in 3rd-party platforms which are exploited through
    JavaScript code
  - HTML5 is considered the NG-Javascript. In turn, HTML5 introduces a
    new set of vulnerabilities


<u>Speaker Bio</u>

Maty is the CTO and founder of Checkmarx. Maty has more than a decade of
experience in software development, IT security and source-code
analysis. An authoritative figure in application security, Maty is
regularly interviewed by the media on security-breaking news and
frequently speaks at various IT security conferences. Prior to founding
Checkmarx, Maty worked at the Israeli Prime Minister’s Office as a
senior IT security expert and project manager.


<u>Technical Level:</u> Intermediate / Advanced



### A Journey To Protect Points-of-Sale

''''' Nir Valtman, Enterprise Security Architect, NCR '''''
([download
presentation](Media:AppSecIL_2014_A_Journey_To_Protect_POS_-_Nir_Valtman.pdf "wikilink"))

Many point-of-sale breaches occurred in the past year and many
organizations are still vulnerable against the simplest exploits. In
this presentation, I explain about how points-of-sale get compromised
from both retailer’s and software-vendor’s perspective. One of the most
common threats is memory scraping, which is a difficult issue to solve.
Hence, I would like to share with you a demonstration of how it works
and what can be done in order to minimize this threat. During this
presentation, I will explain the long journey took me to understand how
to mitigate it, while walking through the concepts (not exposing vendor
names) that don’t work.

Link to the memory scraping tool used in the demonstration:
<http://securitytools.github.io/MemoryScraper/>


<u>Speaker Bio</u>

Nir is employed in NCR Corporation as Enterprise Security Architect of
NCR Retail. Before the acquisition of Retalix by NCR, Nir lead the
security of the R\&D in the company. As part of his previous positions
in the last decade, he was working as Chief Security Architect, Senior
Technology Consultant, Application Security Consultant, Systems
Infrastructure Security Consultant and a Technological Trainer. During
these positions, Nir was not only consulting, but also performing
hands-on activities in various fields, i.e. hardening, penetration
testing and development for personal\\internal applications. In
addition, Nir released few open source tools, e.g. AntiDef, Secure TDD
and Memory Scraper. Nir has a BSc in computer science but his knowledge
is based mainly on cowboy learning and information sharing with the
techno-oriented communities.


<u>Technical Level:</u> Intermediate / Advanced



### Passwords, Rehashed All Over Again

''''' Avi Douglen, Security Research Lead, SourceClear '''''
([download
presentation](Media:AppSecIL_2014_Passwords_Rehashed_All_Over_Again_-_Avi_Douglen.pptx "wikilink"))

Passwords suck.

It’s no secret – passwords are boring, passwords are weak, passwords are
STOOPID. We all hate using them, we all hate building systems for them,
we all hate breaking them, we all just hate dealing with them.
Nevertheless, passwords are here to stay as the most common
authentication mechanism. At least, passwords are a simple mechanism,
and we all understand how to protect them well enough.

Then how come we keep getting them wrong?

Wait, whaaaat??

Not only are password protected sites usually flawed; not only are
millions of passwords stolen more often than stupid cat pictures are
posted to Facebook; not only does your mother reuse the same simple
password everywhere – we, the security industry, keep giving bad
password advice\!

This talk will discuss popular misconceptions regarding how to secure
passwords, even amongst security experts. We will also show some
practical attacks against the common recommendations in this area.
Finally, I will share the simple solutions that we *should* be
recommending, and prove mathematically that they are correct.


<u>Speaker Bio</u>

AviD always denies being a hipster, even while building the Code
Security Research team at a hip young Silicon Valley startup. That said,
when it comes to password misuse he is a downright cranky neckbeard.

During his many years as a developer, security lead, and consultant, he
has been party to some pretty poor password practices. (Pretty poor
password practice parties are not as much fun as you might think). Now,
he is attempting to atone for that, and throws a hissy fit every time he
encounters a site with counter-productive password practices. Stay on
his good side and do the right thing.


<u>Technical Level:</u> Intermediate



### Getting New Actionable Insights by Analyzing WAF Triggers

''''' Or Katz, Principal Security Researcher, Akamai '''''
([online presentation](http://prezi.com/3jsjyo-0f2w8/))

In this presentation I will show an advanced technique for post
processing of ModSecurity Core Rule Set WAF triggers in order to
generate actionable defenses that are derived from WAF triggers. The
objective of this post processing is to improve security controls. Based
on the collected malicious HTTP traffic we can produce new insights on
our attackers and the techniques they use and as a result we can harden
defenses that will improve our mitigations. The presentation will
include detailed description of several techniques with case studies
based on real traffic from Akamai's security big data platform (Cloud
Security Intelligence).


<u>Speaker Bio</u>

Or is an application security veteran, with years of experience at
industry leading vendors such as Trustwave and F5 Networks. Or currently
serves as principal security researcher for Akamai's Cloud Security
Intelligence platform. Or is a frequent speaker in conferences such as
RSA and OWASP.


<u>Technical Level:</u> Intermediate / Advanced



### The Bank Job - Mobile Edition. Remote Exploitation of the Cordova Framework for Android

''*' David Kaplan, Security Researcher, IBM Security Systems **''
*** Roee Hay, Application Security Research Team Leader, IBM Security
Systems '''''
([download
presentation](Media:AppSecIL_2014_The_Bank_Job_Mobile_Edition_-_Remote_Exploitation_of_Cordova_for_Android_-_David_Kaplan_-_Roee_Hay.pdf "wikilink"))

Apache Cordova is a popular cross-platform framework for mobile
development. In this talk we present a series of vulnerabilities which
we found in the framework for Android. These vulnerabilities enable a
remote drive-by download attack against many Cordova-based applications
and, as the framework is used in over 10% of all finance applications on
the Android platform, your bank could be at risk\! The talk will include
a live demonstration of the attack.


<u>Speaker Bio</u>

David Kaplan is a Security Researcher with IBM Security Systems. The IBM
Security Systems Research Team is responsible for cutting edge
Application Security research and has published numerous vulnerabilities
and whitepapers.
Prior to his work at IBM, David spent a number of years working on next
generation security products at Intel and was formerly part of the Red
Team at NDS/Cisco.

Roee leads the Application Security Research Team at IBM. He has vast
knowledge and experience in network and application security. Roee has
disclosed numerous security vulnerabilities and has published several
white papers.


<u>Technical Level:</u> Intermediate



# Track 2 (Chase Auditorium)

### Practical Attacks against MDM Solutions

''''' Shai Yanovski, Security Product Manager, Lacoon Mobile Security
'''''

Mobile Remote Access Trojans (mRATs) are surveillance tools
surreptitiously planted on a user’s handheld device. While malicious
mobile applications– mainly phone fraud applications distributed through
common application channels - target the typical consumer, mRATs are the
tool for the dedicated attacker. Why? Once installed, the software
stealthy gathers information such as text messages (SMS), geo-location
information, emails and even surround-recordings. How are these mobile
cyber-espionage attacks carried out? In this engaging session, we
demonstrate attack techniques which bypass traditional mobile malware
detection measures- and even circumvent common Mobile Device Management
(MDM) features, such as encryption.


<u>Speaker Bio</u>

Shai is the security product manager in Lacoon Mobile security. Prior to
Lacoon, Shai collaborated with a range of private sector companies on
projects related to nano-particles toxicology, military helicopter fault
prediction, and terrorist activity detection in communications networks,
as a member of the Tel Aviv University’s Applied Machine Learning Group,
Today Shai applies his experience to find malicious patterns and
behaviors on mobile devices.


<u>Technical Level:</u> Intermediate / Advanced



### Dynamic Analysis of Android Apps: Attacking Apps From The Inside

''''' Erez Metula, Application Security Expert. Author of the book
"Managed Code Rootkits". Founder, AppSec Labs '''''
([download
presentation](Media:AppSecIL_2014_ErezMetula_AppSecLabs_Dynamic_Analysis_of_Android_Apps.pdf "wikilink"))

Dynamic analysis of android apps is all about analyzing apps in real
time, for the purpose of detecting application level vulnerabilities and
for the sake of manipulating applications while they execute. It is
often used as a last resort due to its complexity, when other pentesting
techniques mainly focused on static analysis are not enough. Common
usages of dynamic analysis are extraction of sensitive data from
application memory variables, stealing encryption keys, manipulating
signature mechanisms and so on. During this talk we will focus on memory
dumps, remote debugging, smali debugging, native debugging, usage of
ReFrameworker platform and other interesting things. This talk is based
on a similar chapter as part of the Android application hacking course
given by Erez at recent BlackHat USA 2014
(https://www.blackhat.com/us-14/training/android-application-hacking-pentesting-mobile-apps.html)


<u>Speaker Bio</u>

Erez Metula Author of the book "Managed Code Rootkits", is a world
renowned application security expert. Erez has extensive hands-on
experience performing security assessments, code reviews and secure
development trainings for worldwide organizations, and had previously
talked at international security conferences such as BlackHat, Defcon,
OWASP, RSA, SOURCE, CanSecWest and more. He is the founder of AppSec
Labs, where he focuses on advanced application security topics. Erez
holds an MSc in computer science and he is CISSP.


<u>Technical Level:</u> Advanced



### Mobile Security Attacks: A Glimpse From the Trenches

''*' Yair Amit, CTO & Co-Founder, Skycure **''
*** Adi Sharabani, CEO & Co-Founder, Skycure '''''
([download
presentation](Media:AppSecIL_2014_Mobile_Security_Attacks_-_A_Glimpse_From_the_Trenches_-_Yair_Amit_-_Adi_Sharabani_-_Skycure.pdf "wikilink"))

Hackers today apply covert and persistent techniques to attack mobile
devices. Attend this presentation to learn about the latest threats on
mobile devices from the team who uncovered iOS malicious profiles and
HTTP Request Hijacking. We will describe and demonstrate emerging mobile
security threats: from physical, through network and up to application
level. Hold on to your seats as we expose examples, statistics and
insights about real-world attacks on mobile-devices around the world.

This presentation aims at providing a technical overview of the most
prominent attack techniques on mobile devices by hackers today, along
with a glimpse to emerging threats. The presentation will be conducted
via a two-presenters model and shall include a live demo and audience
participation.


<u>Speaker Bio</u>

Yair Amit has been active in the security world for more than a decade.
His research is being regularly covered by media-outlets and presented
in security conferences around the world. Prior to founding Skycure,
Yair managed the Application Security & Research Group at IBM, to which
he joined through the acquisition Watchfire, a startup that was a
pioneer in the field of web-application security.

Adi Sharabani is a world-class security expert and the CEO of Skycure.
Formerly, Sharabani led the security of all IBM software products. He
came to IBM through the Watchfire acquisition, a start-up company which
was a pioneer in the field of application security. His works have been
presented in many known conferences such as BlackHat, RSA, OWASP and
Innovate.


<u>Technical Level:</u> Intermediate / Advanced



### Manipulating the Manipulator: Destroying browser-based memory corruption exploits

''''' Tomer Teller, Security Innovations Research Manager, Check Point
'''''
([download
presentation](Media:AppSecIL_2014_Manipulating_the_Manipulator_-_Tomer_Teller.pdf "wikilink"))

Browser exploitation is the leading cause for the spread of malware
across the web. As a result, endpoint-based exploit mitigation
technologies were developed to increase the difficulty in these types of
exploitations. While these tools have been proven to work in the field,
the endpoint-based technologies are difficult to 1) manage, 2)
configure, and 3) deploy, particularly in large organizations due to
their invasive nature.

In this session, we will unveil an innovative JavaScript library that
overloads key functions/structures in order to subvert client-side
memory layout. Once injected to a session, the library will manipulate
the heap layout in a way that breaks memory corruption vulnerabilities
(including Flash-based exploits). This is done by making them less
reliable while not breaking the user-experience/performance.

We will release the library during the talk, discuss its implementation,
and demonstrate it against the latest obfuscated browser exploits.

The sessions will conclude with lessons learned during development of
the library as well as the future direction of this research.


<u>Speaker Bio</u>

Tomer Teller is the security innovations research manager and corporate
technical spokesperson at Check Point. His day-to-day includes
brainstorming and developing innovative POCs that span multiple
disciplines, including malware analysis, exploit mitigations and digital
forensics in the effort to improve Check Point’s threat prevention
product line detection rates. He has been an active speaker at industry
conferences and presented at Black Hat, RSA, TCE, CPX and Bloomberg
CyberSecurity. Teller holds a B.Sc. in computer science and is a proud
owner of multiple patents in the field of exploit mitigations.


<u>Technical Level:</u> Intermediate / Advanced



### The (In)Security of AngularJS and MongoDB

''''' Israel Chorzevski, Tech Leader, AppSec Labs '''''
([download
presentation](Media:AppSecIL_2014_In-Secure_Mongo_And_Angular_Code_-_Israel_Chorzevski.PDF "wikilink"))

AngularJS and MongoDB are new technologies which are becoming common in
more and more websites. During the lecture we will briefly review the
technology, we will learn about new vulnerabilities which are relevant
for them, we’ll see how a secure website becomes insecure simply by
including an AngularJS library, and how to perform SQL Injection in No
SQL database. This lecture is also relevant to popular development
environments such as Java, .NET etc...


<u>Speaker Bio</u>

There are people that do security research for a living, and there are
people who do it on their own time. Israel Chorzevski has been doing it
in both for almost ten years… he is publically known for his lectures
and professional trainings. In addition to research, he is involved in a
number of hacking projects, such as AppUse (Android Testing Platform)
and other tools which have and are being developed in AppSec Labs as a
part of his position as Tech Leader of the company.


<u>Technical Level:</u> Intermediate



### Static Analysis Improved Fuzzing

''''' Moti Cohen, IDC '''''
([download
presentation](Media:AppSecIL_2014_Static_Analysis_Improved_Fuzzing_-_Moti_Cohen.pptx "wikilink"))

Programmers these days need to deal with an ever growing threat of
attacks on the web application they develop. To help them reveal the
possible vulnerabilities in their application, a few tools and
techniques were developed that help find software vulnerabilities. These
techniques are mainly Static Code Analysis and Fuzzing. These techniques
have their advantage, but both suffer from serious drawbacks.

Our research proposes a way to combine both techniques and improve the
analysis results. This work was my M.Sc. thesis at the IDC under the
supervision of Dr. David Movshovitz.


<u>Speaker Bio</u>

Moti is a graduate of the IDC's M.Sc. in Computer Science program. In
addition, he has a rich background in cyber security and software
engineering.


<u>Technical Level:</u> Advanced




*The presentations at AppSecIL were selected through an open [Call for
Presentations](AppSec_Israel_2014_CFP "wikilink"), and everyone was
invited to submit a proposal for a presentation.*

[Category:Israel](Category:Israel "wikilink")
[Category:AppSec_Israel_2014](Category:AppSec_Israel_2014 "wikilink")