The annual OWASP AppSec Israel Conference is the largest conference in
Israel for application security, and regularly draws over hundreds of
participants. Over 550 people attended this year\!

AppSecIL is not just for security experts\! It is also for developers,
managers, QA, and anyone else involved with building, managing,
programming, testing, deploying or securing any type of software,
website, mobile app, or other type of application.

If you are responsible for, or involved with:

  - web security
  - devops security
  - cloud security
  - mobile security
  - application security

... you should join us at AppSecIL\!

AppSec Israel 2015 included dual lecture tracks from an amazing group of
speakers, in addition to a sponsors display area for vendors of products
and services of interest to Application Security professionals and
developers.

All the talks at the Conference were recorded, and are [available
online](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DzeEH0lhc7w&list=PLA4gj-PiNuke8miyzoFmZ8GVqSLcKCgMU&index=2).

A [collection of photos from the
event](https://idangross.smugmug.com/Colman/%D7%91%D7%99%D7%AA-%D7%94%D7%A1%D7%A4%D7%A8-%D7%9C%D7%9E%D7%93%D7%A2%D7%99/%D7%A1%D7%99%D7%99%D7%91%D7%A8/i-N9Q89L4).


\= Location and Time =

The annual OWASP AppSec Israel 2015 conference was held this year in The
College of Management (Michlala l’Minhal), in Rishon LeZion, on Tuesday,
October 13th, 2015, between 9:00 and 17:30.

The address is Eli Weisel 2, Rishon LeZiyon. There is plenty of parking
available, entrance is via gate 4.

For directions and public transportation options, please see the
information at this link:
<http://www.colman.ac.il/about/roads/Pages/default.aspx>

Please use the [\#AppSecIL](https://twitter.com/hashtag/AppSecIL)
hashtag on Twitter.

# Sponsors

The AppSec Israel conference is being sponsored by:



# Registration

Attending the conference is free of charge, however advance registration
is required.

If you are planning on attending the conference - please register now\!
Registration page is at <https://appsecil2015.eventbrite.com/>.

From there you will also be able to sign up at Sched.org, to view the
conference schedule interactively, add sessions to your personal
calendar, and other features.

![EventBriteRegisterButton.png](EventBriteRegisterButton.png
"EventBriteRegisterButton.png")

# Agenda

See [detailed list of talks
here](AppSec_Israel_2015_Presentations "wikilink"), slidedecks are also
available. Please note that some of the talks will be given in English,
and some in Hebrew. Please check the details of each session to know in
which language it will be.

The [full schedule can be seen and subscribed to
here](https://appsecil2015.sched.org/).

**Keynote Address: Jeremiah Grossman**, Founder, WhiteHat Security

The Rebellious Teenage Years: 15 years of Web Security

  - **Shai Yanovski**, Security Product Manager, Check Point

*Certifi-gate - Front Door Access to Pwning hundreds of Millions of
Androids Devices - the aftermath.*

  - **Hemi Leibowitz**, Cyber Security Researcher at Bar Ilan University
    and a lecturer at the College of Management

*Cross-Site Search Attacks*

  - **Moshe Ferber**, Chairman, Cloud Security Alliance Israel

*From zero to secure in 1 minute*

  - **Amit Ashbel**, AppSec Strategist at Checkmarx

*Game of Hacks: Play, Hack & Track*

  - **Erez Metula**, Application Security Expert, Chairman of AppSec
    Labs, and **Israel Chorzevski**, CTO, AppSec Labs

*Internet of Things (IOT) Insecurity*

  - **Sagie Dulce**, ADC TL, Imperva

*Man in the Cloud Attack*

  - **Roee Hay**, X-Force Application Security Research Team Lead

*One Class to Rule Them All: Deserialization Vulnerabilities in Android*

  - **Ofer Maor**, Director of Security Strategy, Synopsys

*Security Automation in the Agile SDLC - Real World Cases*

  - **Helen Bravo**, Product Management Director at Checkmarx

*The Node.js Highway: Attacks are at Full Throttle*

  - **Yossi Oren**, Senior Lecturer at the Department of Information
    Systems Engineering, Ben Gurion University

*The Spy in the Sandbox: Practical Cache Attacks in Javascript and their
Implications*

  - **Daniel Liber**, R\&D Security Leader, CyberArk

*Theories of Agile, Fails of Security*

  - **Netanel Rubin**, Senior Vulnerability Researcher, PerimeterX

*Too Big to Fail - Breaking WordPress Core*

  - **Yair Amit**, CTO & Co-Founder of Skycure

*Why Are Hackers Winning the Mobile Malware Battle*

  - **Yaniv Balmas**, Security Researcher, Check Point Software
    Technologies

*0x3E9 Ways to DIE*

# Sponsorships

Whether you have a product to showcase, or you are recruiting,
sponsoring the OWASP AppSec Israel event gets you the right exposure.
This year we are expecting well over 500 attendees, including security
professionals, developers, managers, and more.

Sponsorship also helps support the OWASP community, and ensures that we
can keep on making our conferences better and better. Sponsorship fees
are intended to cover the costs of the conference. Since the conference
is open to all and free of charge to attend, we need your support to
enable us to put on a great conference.

Last year, we updated our sponsorship tiers, and we are now offering
Silver, Gold and Platinum sponsorship levels. There is also a
cost-effective “Community Supporter” option for non-profits, government
offices, small startups, and such. For more details on the available
sponsorship options please see the [Sponsorship
page](OWASP_IL_Sponsorship "wikilink").

For more details and to confirm your sponsorship, please contact [Ofer
Maor](mailto:ofer@quotium.com).

![EventBriteRegisterButton.png](EventBriteRegisterButton.png
"EventBriteRegisterButton.png")

## The people behind the conference

OWASP AppSec Israel is made by the people who contribute their time and
brains to its success. The following people are working to ensure that
OWASP AppSec Israel 2015 is a success. If you feel that you also can
contribute or have interesting ideas regarding the conference, please
don't hesitate to contact me directly (Douglen at Hotmail dot com).

### Contributors

  - Avi Douglen (Independent)
  - Or Katz (Akamai)
  - Ofer Maor (Quotium)
  - Erez Metula (AppSec Labs)
  - Hemed Gur Ary (Amdocs)

[Category:Israel](Category:Israel "wikilink")
[Category:AppSec_Israel_2015](Category:AppSec_Israel_2015 "wikilink")
[Category:OWASP_AppSec_Conference](Category:OWASP_AppSec_Conference "wikilink")