**Title: Fundamental Application Security Building Blocks - The Benefits
of Establishing an Enterprise Security API (ESAPI) for Your
Organization**

Nobody would trust the safety of a car built by people with no safety
experience from parts they designed and made themselves or found lying
around. Trying to build secure applications without solid vetted
security controls is similarly impossible. To solve this problem, we
have created the [OWASP ESAPI
project](:Category:OWASP_Enterprise_Security_API "wikilink"). In this
talk, Dave Wichers will show you how to create an ESAPI for your
organization that will solve the OWASP Top Ten vulnerabilities, give you
something concrete to measure, and dramatically cut costs all at the
same time.

The ESAPI is a free and open collection of all the security methods that
a developer needs to build a secure web application. You can just use
the interfaces and build your own implementation using your company's
infrastructure. Or, you can use the reference implementation as a
starting point. In concept, the API is language independent. However,
the first deliverables from the project are a Java API and a Java
reference implementation. Efforts to build ESAPI in .NET and PHP are
already underway.

**About the Speaker:** Dave Wichers is a cofounder and Chief Operating
Officer (COO) of [Aspect Security](http://www.aspectsecurity.com), a
company that specializes in application security services. Dave is also
a member of the OWASP board, is the [OWASP Conferences
Chair](:Category:OWASP_AppSec_Conference "wikilink"), and is a coauthor
of the [OWASP Top Ten](OWASP_Top_Ten_Project "wikilink"). OWASP is a
worldwide free and open community focused on improving the security of
application software. Mr. Wichers has over 20 years of experience in the
information security field, and has focused exclusively on application
security for the past 10 years. At Aspect, in addition to his COO
duties, he is Aspect's application security courseware lead, one of
their chief instructors, and provides a wide variety of application
security consulting services to Aspect's clients. Prior to starting
Aspect, he ran the Application Security Services Group at Exodus
Communications. Mr. Wichers has a Bachelors and Masters degree in
Computer Science, is a CISSP, and a CISM.