# Europe 2009 Tutorials

This year we bring you 1- and 2-day tutorials from the best application
security experts\!

The tutorial are in the same venue as the conference.

Conference tutorial fees are 910 Euros (2 days) and 455 Euros (1 day).

## 2-day tutorials (May 11-12)

### Web Services Security, *by Dave Wichers, Aspect Security*

The movement towards Web Services and Service Oriented architecture
(SOA) paradigms requires new security paradigms to deal with new risks
posed by these architectures. Building Secure Web Services introduces
the student to all of the commonly used web services and SOA functional
and security standards (including web services, XML, HTTP, and SOA
standards), and then focuses on presenting effective ways for providing
the security characteristics required in each of the core web services
security areas. These areas include encryption, authentication, access
control, input validation, error handling and logging, etc.

The course starts with a module on the core functional and security
standards involved in web services and an overview of web services
security. This is followed by a high level approach for doing threat
modeling for web services enabled applications.

After this introduction, each web services vulnerability area is covered
in detail, discussing the common threats and alternate approaches for
addressing those threats, including both standards based (where they
exist) and best practice based security approaches. This course teaches
practical implementation and testing techniques, including the use of
hands on testing exercises to discover and exploit web services
vulnerabilities as well as hands on solution development exercises for
eliminating these vulnerabilities.

The course concludes with coverage on how to establish trust between
services, some exercises on applying what we have learned, and then a
significant discussion on SOA and its impact on web services security.

The course outline for this course is as follows:

  - Introduction to Web Services Security
  - Web Services Security Threat Modeling
  - How to Secure Web Services Communications and Protect Sensitive Data
    (e.g., XML Encryption/Signature)
  - Managing Authentication and Identity within Web Services (e.g.,
    SAML, WS-Trust, WS-Secure Conversation)
  - How to Control Access to Web Services (e.g., SAML, XACML, XML
    Gateways)
  - How to Validate Input and Protect Output in Web Services (e.g.,
    DTDs, XSDs, custom)
  - Error Handling, Logging, Accountability, and Monitoring within Web
    Services
  - Providing and Protecting Discovery Services (UDDI)
  - Establishing Trust between Services (e.g., WS-Security, SAML,
    WS-Federation)
  - Applying What We’ve Learned
  - Service Oriented Architectures (SOA)

**Hands on Exercises**: To cement the principles delivered via the
lecture portion of the course, students can participate in a number of
hands-on security testing exercises. During the hands-on exercises
students will attack a live web application (i.e., WebGoat) that has
been seeded with common web application vulnerabilities. The students
will use proxy tools commonly used by the hacker community to complete
the exercises.

**Requirements**: If you are interested in participating in the hands on
portion of the course, please bring a Windows based laptop.

**Dave Wichers** is the COO and cofounder of Aspect, where he is
responsible for running daily operations of the company. Prior to
founding Aspect, Dave started and ran the application security practice
at Exodus Communications, which provided a full suite of application
security consulting services to Fortune 500 and other commercial
companies starting in 1998. Dave has focused on information security
during his entire career, starting in 1988. His information security
background spans the entire security engineering lifecycle, including
software development, system security requirements, security
architectures, secure designs, security policies, models, and system
testing. He has supported the design and development of trusted
operating systems, trusted databases, secure routers, multilevel secure
guards, and large integrated systems for a wide variety of customers,
including NSA, DoD, and Fortune 500 vendors and end customers. Dave is a
primary author of the OWASP Top 10 Web Application Security
Vulnerabilities and is the OWASP Conferences Chair. He was also a
primary contributor to the group responsible for creating ISO 21827, the
Systems Security Engineering Capability Maturity Model (SSE-CMM). Dave
earned a B.S. summa cum laude in Computer Systems Engineering from
Arizona State University and an M.S. summa cum laude in Computer Science
from the University of California at Davis. Dave holds both CISSP and
CISM certifications.

[Click HERE to register for this
Tutorial](http://guest.cvent.com/i.aspx?4W,M3,887f27a2-13e0-47dc-9220-76ed22ab0546)

### Advanced Testing, *by Michael Coates, Aspect Security*

While all developers need to know the basics of web application security
testing, application security specialists will want to know all the
advanced techniques for finding and diagnosing security problems in
applications. Aspect’s Advanced Web Application Security Testing
training is based on a decade of work verifying the security of critical
applications. The course is taught by an experienced application
security practitioner in an interactive manner.

This two day course is designed to teach existing web application
developers how to test for security issues. Participants of this course
will learn how to scope a security review and prioritize the work,
understand the manual and automated tools and techniques available and
when to apply them, and learn how to determine the real risk value. In
order to achieve these goals, students will assess the OWASP Top Ten
security areas within a real world application.

This course will utilize a modified version of the Java Pet Store J2EE
web application provided by the Blueprints project. Not only will we
identify vulnerabilities introduced into the application, but students
will also be asked to identify actual 0-day vulnerabilities existing in
the Java Pet Store baseline\! Students gain hands-on testing experience
with freely available web application security test tools to find and
diagnose flaws and learn to identify them in their own projects. The
students are then guided through the process of how to create and
communicate effective software security flaw descriptions for the flaws
they have discovered.

**Prerequisites**

Students need to be very familiar with common web application security
issues including the OWASP Top Ten. As an advanced class, students
should already have had some basic experience doing web application
security testing. At a minimum, the students should have already gone
through and solved most of the web application security lessons in
OWASP's [WebGoat](OWASP_WebGoat_Project "wikilink") or have experienced
similar testing activities.

**Michael Coates** is a Senior Application Security Engineer for Aspect
Security and has performed numerous penetration assessments, security
code reviews, and security training sessions for leading corporations
worldwide. Michael is the creator and leader of the AppSensor project
and is completing a Masters Degree in Computer Security from DePaul
University. In past years, Michael assessed the security of GSM and
WiMAX telecommunication networks, application and network systems for
financial institutions and performed social engineering testing.

[Click HERE to register for this
Tutorial](http://guest.cvent.com/i.aspx?4W,M3,887f27a2-13e0-47dc-9220-76ed22ab0546)

## 1-day tutorials (May 11)

### Web 2.0 Hacking – Attacks & Countermeasures, *by Shreeraj Shah, Blueinfy*

Introduction and adaptation of new technologies like Ajax, Rich Internet
Applications and Web Services has changed the dimension of Application
Hacking. We are witnessing new ways of hacking web based applications
and it needs better understanding of technologies to secure
applications. The only constant in this space is change. In this
dynamically changing scenario in the era of Web 2.0 it is important to
understand new threats that emerge in order to build constructive
strategies to protect corporate application assets. Application layers
are evolving and lot of client side attack vectors are on the rise like
Ajax based XSS, CSRF, Widget injections, RSS exploits, Mashup
manipulations and client side logic exploitations. At the same time
various new attack vectors are evolving around SOA by attacking SOAP,
XML-RPC and REST. It is time to understand these advanced attack vectors
and defense strategies.

The course is designed by the author of "Web Hacking: Attacks and
Defense", “Hacking Web Services” and “Web 2.0 Security – Defending Ajax,
RIA and SOA” bringing his experience in application security and
research as part of curriculum to address new challenges. The class
features real life cases, new scanning tools and defense mechanisms.
Participants would be methodically exposed to various different attack
vectors and exploits. In the class instructor will explain new tools
like wsScanner, scanweb2.0, AppMap, AppCodeScan etc. for better
pen-testing and application audits.

We are going to address following topics in detail:

  - Application security fundamentals: Application evolution, Web 2.0
    framework, Layered threats, Threat models, Attack vectors and
    Hacker’s perspective.
  - Application infrastructure overview: Protocols (HTTP/SSL), SOAP,
    XML-RPC, REST, Tools for analysis, Server layers and Browsers with
    plugins.
  - Application Architecture: Overview to .NET and J2EE application
    frameworks, Web 2.0 application architecture, Widgets framework,
    Application layers and components, Resources and interactions, other
    languages.
  - Advanced Web Technologies: Ajax, Rich Internet Applications (RIA)
    and Web Services.
  - Application attack vectors and detail understanding: SQL injection,
    Cross Site Scripting (XSS), Cross Site Request Forgery (CSRF), Path
    traversal, Session hijacking, LDAP/XPATH/Command injection, Buffer
    overflow, Input validation bypassing, Database hacks and Blind SQL
    injections.
  - Advanced Attacks: Ajax based XSS, CSRF with Web Services,
    Decompiling Flash and RIA apps, WSDL scanning, XML poisoning, SQL
    injections through XML, External Entity attacks, Widget
    exploitation, RSS injections, Cross Domain bypass, and many more.
  - Application methodologies: Blackbox /Whitebox approaches, tools,
    techniques and little tricks
  - Advanced application footprinting and discovery: Leveraging search
    engines, Cross domain mashup discovery and Web 2.0 application
    domain enumeration.
  - Fingerprinting: Web and Application server, Ajax framework, Flash
    based application and technology fingerprinting.
  - Advanced browser based attacks: XSS proxy and browser hijacking,
    Intranet scanning, JavaScript manipulation and DOM injections.
  - Web Fuzzing: Fuzzing XML, JSON, RPCs etc. for vulnerability
    detection.
  - Scanning Web Services: Footprinting, discovery, scanning and
    attacking XML-RPC, SOAP and REST based applications.
  - Scanning for vulnerabilities through Source: Function and Method
    signature mapping, entry point identification, data access layer
    calls, tracing variables and functions.
  - Applying validations: Input validations, Output validations, Data
    access filtering, and Authentication validates.
  - Web Application Firewall: Advanced content filtering by tools and
    techniques.

**Shreeraj Shah**, B.E., MSCS, MBA, is the founder of Blueinfy, a
company that provides application security services. Prior to founding
Blueinfy, he was founder and board member at Net Square. He also worked
with Foundstone (McAfee), Chase Manhattan Bank and IBM in security
space. He is also the author of popular books like Hacking Web Services
(Thomson 06) and Web Hacking: Attacks and Defense (Addison-Wesley 03).
In addition, he has published several advisories, tools, and
whitepapers, and has presented at numerous conferences including RSA,
AusCERT, InfosecWorld (Misti), HackInTheBox, Blackhat, OSCON, Bellua,
Syscan, ISACA etc. His articles are regularly published on
Securityfocus, InformIT, DevX, O’reilly, HNS. His work has been quoted
on BBC, Dark Reading, Bank Technology as an expert.

[Click HERE to register for this
Tutorial](http://guest.cvent.com/i.aspx?4W,M3,887f27a2-13e0-47dc-9220-76ed22ab0546)

## 1-day tutorials (May 12)

### In-depth Assessment Techniques: Design, Code, and Runtime, *by Pravir Chandra, Cognosticus*

This tutorial is targeted at those wanting to enhance their software
assessment skills. Specifically, the tutorial teaches attendees
techniques for design analysis, code review, and penetration testing
that uncover a wide variety of vulnerabilities and weaknesses in
applications. If you have pre-existing skills and want to learn more
this course is perfect. The tutorial will generally focus on web
applications, but most information applies to software of any type. In
addition, attendees will learn general methods for protecting against
the security issues uncovered by each assessment technique.

The turorial topics include:

  - System decomposition for analysis
  - Lightweight threat/risk modeling
  - Identifying interfaces/attack surface
  - Testing business logic and edge cases
  - Assessing for provision of security mechanisms
  - Assessing for key vulnerability classes
  - Risk classification and weighting
  - Root cause analysis and patching

The tutorial has a primary focus on intermediate/advanced assessment and
testing concepts for architects and developers. Automated security
assessment tools will be discussed in context, but not demoed.

**Pravir Chandra**, is widely recognized in the industry for his
expertise in security-based code analysis, and also for his ability to
apply this knowledge strategically from a business perspective. He was
most recently affiliated with Secure Software, Inc., where he was
Co-Founder and Chief Security Architect. Previously, he managed an
Operations Security group at AOL Time Warner where he supervised the
build-out and maintenance of critical security infrastructure for the
company and spent time as a research associate at Cigital. Pravir’s
book, Network Security with Open SSL is a popular reference on
protecting software applications through cryptography and secure
communications. His varied special project experience includes serving
as Project Lead for the Comprehensive Lightweight Application Security
Process (CLASP) project with the Open Web Application Security Project
(OWASP) Foundation.

[Click HERE to register for this
Tutorial](http://guest.cvent.com/i.aspx?4W,M3,887f27a2-13e0-47dc-9220-76ed22ab0546)

### Introduction to ModSecurity, the Apache Security Module, *by Christian Folini, Netnea (christian.folini 'at' netnea.com)*

The training session adresses technical users with a certain
understanding of http, but no previous knowledge of ModSecurity. The
programm will be a mix of presentations, lab sessions and discussions
about the merits of web application firewalls and online security in
general. The attendees will recieve the basic knowledge to use
ModSecurity and the means to configure the module in real world
situations. They will also get an overview about the documentation and
community support offerings.

Tutorial program in 7 lessons

  - LAB: Rules I - Writing simple rules
  - Architecture I - Characteristics of the multi-tier architecture
  - Core Rules (1/2 lesson) - Introduction to the official Core Rules (a
    set of generic blacklist rules)
  - Alerts and Logs (1/2 lesson) - Format of the Logs, Configruation and
    handling of False Positives
  - A closer look at HTTP - How it works on the internet and in Apache
    and what this means for ModSecurity and you
  - Architecture II - Good use of ModSecurity in the Enterprise
  - LAB: Rules II - More complex rules
  - Remo - Demonstration of Remo, a whitelist rule editor for
    ModSecurity.

Attendees have to bring their own laptop.

**Christian Folini**, is a Switzerland based consultant at netnea.com.
Officially, Christian's background is medieval history with studies at
the Universities of Berne, Bielefeld (Germany), Berlin and Fribourg
(Switzerland), where he also graduated with computer science as a minor
subject. He published on female mysticism and database design for
historical research. Despite his unusual background, he is specialised
in webserver security and the configuration of ModSecurity. Christian
continues to work on two of the biggest online banking setups in
Switzerland (That's only couple of hundred thousand customers, but these
Swiss banks tend to take security quite seriously). He is a contributor
to the CIS Apache Benchmark and recently got hooked up on the group
attempting to upgrade the Web Application Firewall Evaluation Criteria
(WAFEC). Christian is also the developer of Remo, a whitelist rule
editor for ModSecurity.

Attendees are also expected to read Christian's book on Dominican nuns,
but they are allowed to postpone the lecture until after the tutorial.

[Click HERE to register for this
Tutorial](http://guest.cvent.com/i.aspx?4W,M3,887f27a2-13e0-47dc-9220-76ed22ab0546)

### Threat Modeling, *by John Steven, Cigital*

How will attackers break your web application? How much security testing
is enough? Do I have to worry about insiders? Threat modeling, applied
with a risk management approach can answer both of these questions if
done correctly. This talk will present advanced threat modeling
step-wise through examples and exercises using the Java EE platform and
focusing on authentication, authorization, and session management.
Participants will learn, through interactive exercise on real software
architectures, how to use diagramming techniques to explicitly document
threats their applications face, identify how assets worth protecting
manifest themselves within the system, and enumerate the attack vectors
these threats take advantage of. Participants will then engage in secure
design activities, learning how to use the threat model to specify
compensating controls for specified attack vectors. Finally, we'll
discuss how the model can drive security testing and validate an
application resists specified attack.

**John Steven**, Senior Director, Advanced Technology Consulting
Cigital, brings to this newly-created division of the company both depth
and breadth in software security. His experience includes research in
static code analysis and hands-on architecture and implementation of
high-performance, scalable Java EE systems. John has provided security
consulting services to a broad variety of commercial clients including
two of the largest trading platforms in the world and has advised
America's largest internet provider in the Midwest on security and
forensics. John led the development of Cigital's architectural analysis
methodology and its approach to deploying enterprise software security
frameworks. He has demonstrated success in building Cigital's
intellectual property for providing cutting-edge security. He brings
this experience and a track record of effective strategic innovation to
clients seeking to change, whether to adopt more cutting-edge
approaches, or to solidify ROI. John currently chairs the SD Best
Practices security track and co-edits the building security in
department of IEEE's Security and Privacy magazine. John has served on
numerous conference panels regarding software security, wireless
security and Java EE system development. He holds a B.S. in Computer
Engineering and an M.S. in Computer Science from Case Western Reserve
University.

[Click HERE to register for this
Tutorial](http://guest.cvent.com/i.aspx?4W,M3,887f27a2-13e0-47dc-9220-76ed22ab0546)