![468x60-banner-2010.gif](468x60-banner-2010.gif
"468x60-banner-2010.gif")

[Registration](https://guest.cvent.com/EVENTS/Register/IdentityConfirmation.aspx?e=d52c6f5f-d568-4e16-b8e0-b5e2bf87ab3a)
|
[Hotel](https://resweb.passkey.com/Resweb.do?mode=welcome_gi_new&groupID=2766908)
| [Walter E. Washington Convention
Center](http://www.dcconvention.com/)

## Ron Ross

![Ron_ross.PNG](Ron_ross.PNG "Ron_ross.PNG") Dr. Ron Ross is a senior
computer scientist and information security researcher at the National
Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST). His current areas of
specialization include security requirements definition, testing and
evaluation, risk management, and information assurance. Dr. Ross leads
the Federal Information Security Management Act (FISMA) Implementation
Project, which includes the development of security standards and
guidelines for the federal government, contractors, and the U.S.
critical information infrastructure. His recent publications include
Federal Information Processing Standards (FIPS) Publication 199
(security categorization standard), FIPS Publication 200 (security
requirements standard), NIST Special Publication 800-53 (security
controls guideline), NIST Special Publication 800-53A (security
assessment guideline), NIST Special Publication 800-37 (certification
and accreditation guideline), and NIST Special Publication 800-39 (risk
management guideline). Dr. Ross is the principal architect of the Risk
Management Framework that provides a disciplined and structured
methodology for integrating the suite of FISMA security standards and
guidelines into a comprehensive enterprise-wide information security
program. Dr. Ross also leads the Joint Task Force Transformation
Initiative Working Group, a joint partnership with NIST, the Department
of Defense, the Intelligence Community, and the Committee on National
Security Systems to develop a unified information security framework for
the federal government.

In addition to his responsibilities at NIST, Dr. Ross supports the U.S.
State Department in the international outreach program for information
security and critical infrastructure protection. Dr. Ross previously
served as the Director of the National Information Assurance
Partnership, a joint activity of NIST and the National Security Agency.
A graduate of the United States Military Academy at West Point, Dr. Ross
served in a variety of leadership and technical positions during his
twenty-year career in the United States Army. While assigned to the
National Security Agency, he received the Scientific Achievement Award
for his work on an inter-agency national security project and was
awarded the Defense Superior Service Medal upon his departure from the
agency. Dr. Ross is a three-time recipient of the Federal 100 award for
his leadership and technical contributions to critical information
security projects affecting the federal government and is a recipient of
the Department of Commerce Gold Medal Award. Dr. Ross has been inducted
into the Information Systems Security Association (ISSA) Hall of Fame
and elected to the grade of ISSA Distinguished Fellow. Dr. Ross has also
received several private sector awards for cyber security including the
Vanguard Chairmanâ€™s Award and the Symantec Cyber 7 Award. During his
twenty-year military career, Dr. Ross served as a White House aide and
as a senior technical advisor to the Department of the Army. Dr. Ross is
a graduate of the Program Management School at the Defense Systems
Management College and holds both Masters and Ph.D. degrees in Computer
Science from the United States Naval Postgraduate School.

[Category:AppSec_DC_2010_Presentations](Category:AppSec_DC_2010_Presentations "wikilink")
[Category:Keynote](Category:Keynote "wikilink")
[Category:OWASP_Conference_Presentations](Category:OWASP_Conference_Presentations "wikilink")
[Category:FIXME/historical](Category:FIXME/historical "wikilink")