SHIELDS is a cooperative European project funded within the EU 7^ FP
focused on increasing software security by bridging the gap between
security experts and software practitioners providing software
developers with the means to effectively prevent occurrences of known
vulnerabilities when building software.

SHIELDS achieves this objective by developing novel formalisms for
representing security information, such as known vulnerabilities and
their countermeasures, in a form directly usable by development tools,
and accessible to software developers. This information will be stored
in an internet-based Security Vulnerabilities Repository Service (SVRS)
that facilitates fast dissemination of vulnerability information from
security experts to software developers. SHIELDS is also developing a
new breed of security methods and tools to be constantly kept up-todate
by using the information stored in the SVRS.

SHIELDS will operate in an open, distributed environment, and will be
based on standard compliant federation protocols and identification
services, and allow the use of established available technologies in
order to provide access to a wide users community.

Among the objectives of SHIELDS there is also the idea to create a
SHIELDS Compliant certification for tools and a SHIELDS Verified logo
program for software developers that will offer an affordable and yet
technically effective evaluation and certification method in the fight
against common security vulnerabilities.

Additional informaiton can be found on the project web site:
<http://er-projects.gf.liu.se/~shields>