[center](image:AppSecIL_Logo_2016.png "wikilink")

The annual OWASP AppSec Israel Conference is the largest conference in
Israel for application security, and regularly draws hundreds of
participants. Over 650 people attended this year\!

But AppSecIL is not just for security experts\!

Aimed at developers, testers, architects, product designers, and
managers - anyone involved with the software lifecycle is welcome,
regardless of type of software, website, mobile app, or any other type
of application.

If you are responsible for, or involved with:

  - web security
  - devops security
  - cloud security
  - mobile security
  - application security
  - software development
  - quality assurance
  - software maintenance or operations

... you should join us at AppSecIL\!

AppSec Israel 2016 has two lecture tracks from an amazing group of
speakers. We also hosted a sponsors pavilion for products and services
relevant to application security and developers.

All the talks at the Conference were recorded, and will be made
available soon.

A [collection of pictures from the
event](https://drive.google.com/drive/folders/0B0_K8tApcXxmVzBkcDNFUmt5S0U).


\= Location and Time =

The annual OWASP AppSec Israel 2016 conference was held this year in The
College of Management (Michlala l’Minhal), in Rishon LeZion (about 20
minutes south of Tel Aviv), on Monday, September 19th, 2016, from 9AM to
6PM.

The address is Eli Weisel 2, Rishon LeZiyon. There is plenty of parking
available, entrance is via gate 4.

For directions and public transportation options, please see the
information at this link:
<http://www.colman.ac.il/about/roads/Pages/default.aspx>

Please use the [\#AppSecIL](https://twitter.com/hashtag/AppSecIL)
hashtag on Twitter.

# Sponsors

The AppSec Israel conference is proudly being sponsored by:

# Registration

Thanks to our generous sponsors, attending the conference was free of
charge. However, advance registration is required.

Please register here: <https://appsecil2016.eventbrite.com/> .

From there you will also be able to sign up at Sched.org, to view the
conference schedule interactively, add sessions to your personal
calendar, and other features.

# Agenda

See [detailed list of talks
here](AppSec_Israel_2016_Presentations "wikilink"), and slidedecks are
also available there. Please note that while most of the talks are in
English, some will be given in Hebrew. Please check the details of each
session to know in which language it will be.

New this year is a [Capture the Flag
session](AppSec_Israel_2016_CTF "wikilink"), organized and sponsored by
Komodo Consulting: [click here for
details](AppSec_Israel_2016_CTF "wikilink").

The [full schedule can be seen and subscribed to
here](https://appsecil2016.sched.org/).

  - **Tomer Cohen**, Head of R\&D security, Wix.com

*Bot Extension - Abusing Google Chrome Extensions for Bot Attacks*

  - **Amit Ashbel**, Director of Product Marketing & Cyber Security
    Evangelist, Checkmarx

     **Erez Yalon**, Application Security Lead, Checkmarx

*Could a few lines of code \<F\!\#ck\> it all up??*

  - **Amit Klein**, VP Security Research, SafeBreach

*Crippling HTTPS with unholy PAC*

  - **Martin Knobloch**, Principal Consultant, Nixu

*Don't Feed the Hippos\!*

  - **Nadav Avital**, Application Security Research Team Leader,
    Imperva, and

     **Noam Mazor**, Security Research Engineer, Imperva

*Hacking HTTP/2 - New attacks on the Internet’s Next Generation
Foundation*

  - **Erez Metula**, Application Security Expert, AppSec Labs (Founder)

*Hacking The IoT (Internet of Things) - PenTesting RF Operated Devices*

  - **Elena Kravchenko**, ADM BU Security Lead Security & Trust Office,
    HPE Software, and

     **Efrat Wasserman**, ADM Senior Program manager SRL, HPE Software

*Integrating Security in Agile projects (real case study)*

  - **Tal Melamed**, Technical Leader, AppSec Labs

*Java Hurdling: Obstacles and Techniques in Java Client
Penetration-testing*

  - **Eli Greenbaum**, Partner, Yigal Arnon & Co.

*Law and the Israeli Cybersecurity Industry*

  - **Liran Tal**, R\&D Team Leader, Hewlett Packard Enterprise

''NodeJS Security Done Right​ - The tips and tricks they won’t teach you
in school​ ''

  - **Tamir Shavro**, Seeker R\&D Manager, Synopsys

*Putting the "I" in Code Review - Turning Code Review Interactive*

  - **Ofer Maor**, Director of Security Strategy, Synopsys

*Signoff or Sign-Out*

  - **Or Katz**, Principal Security Researcher, Akamai

*The Dark Side of Search Engine Optimization*

  - Dr. **Nethanel Gelernter**, Cyberpion & The College of Management
    Academic Studies

*The Threat of Advanced Cross-Site Search Attacks*

  - **Shay Chen**, CEO, Effective Security

*The Unwanted Sons - Formalizing and Demonstrating WAF Bypass Methods
for the REST of the Top 10*

  - **Yair Amit**, CTO & Co-founder, Skycure

*The Ways Hackers Are Taking To Win The Mobile Malware Battle*

# Sponsorships

Whether you have a product to showcase, offering a service, or you are
recruiting, sponsoring the OWASP AppSec Israel event gets you the right
exposure. This year we are expecting well over 600 attendees, including
security professionals, developers, managers, and more.

Sponsorship also helps support the OWASP community, and ensures that we
can keep on making our conferences better and better. Sponsorship fees
are intended to cover the costs of the conference. Since the conference
is open to all and free of charge to attend, we need your support to
enable us to put on a great conference.

We are now offering Silver, Gold and Platinum sponsorship levels. There
is also a cost-effective “Community Supporter” option for non-profits,
government offices, small startups, and such. For more details on the
available sponsorship options please see the [Conference Sponsorship
page](AppSec_Israel_2016_Sponsorships "wikilink").

For more details and to confirm your sponsorship, please contact [Or
Katz](mailto:katz3112@gmail.com).

# The people behind the conference

OWASP AppSec Israel is made by the people who contribute their time and
brains to its success. The following people are working to ensure that
OWASP AppSec Israel is a success. If you feel that you also can
contribute or have interesting ideas regarding the conference, please
don't hesitate to contact [AviD](mailto:Avi.Douglen@owasp.org) directly.

### Contributors

  - Avi Douglen (Independent)
  - Or Katz (Akamai)
  - Ofer Maor (Synopsys)
  - Erez Metula (AppSec Labs)
  - Hemed Gur Ary (Amdocs)
  - Dr. Yossi Oren (Ben Gurion University)

[Category:Israel](Category:Israel "wikilink")
[Category:AppSec_Israel_2016](Category:AppSec_Israel_2016 "wikilink")
[Category:OWASP_AppSec_Conference](Category:OWASP_AppSec_Conference "wikilink")