Here are the full descriptions of the talks at [AppSec Israel
2015](AppSec_Israel_2015 "wikilink"), and the biographies for each of
the speakers.

The [full schedule can be found and subscribed
here](https://appsecil2015.sched.org/).

# Keynote - Main Auditorium

### Keynote: The Rebellious Teenage Years: 15 years of Web Security

''''' Jeremiah Grossman, Founder, WhiteHat Security '''''
([download
presentation](Media:AppSecIL2015_Keynote_Jeremiah_Grossman.pptx "wikilink"))

It's been 15 years of Web Security. Jeremiah will discuss where we’ve
been, where we are, and where we’re going.


<u>Speaker Bio</u>

Innovator. Inventor. Protector of the Web. Jeremiah Grossman is the
founder of WhiteHat Security.

Jeremiah possesses a unique combination of technology savvy, customer
advocacy and personal passion to lead WhiteHat into the future. A
world-renowned web security expert, sought-after speaker and influential
blogger, Jeremiah brings a literal lifetime of information security
experience, both homegrown and from his days as Yahoo\!’s information
security engineer. The ultimate “WhiteHat,” Jeremiah is also founder of
the Web Application Security Consortium and the mind behind Aviator,
WhiteHat’s next generation secure web browser. In his spare time,
Jeremiah practices Brazilian Jiu jitsu and has earned a black belt.

<u>Language:</u> English

# Track 1 - Main Auditorium

### Internet of Things (IOT) Insecurity

''*' Erez Metula, Application Security Expert and Chairman, AppSec Labs
**''
*** Israel Chorzevski, CTO, AppSec Labs '''''
([download
presentation](Media:AppSecIL2015_IoT-Insecurity_ErezMetula-IsraelChorzevski.pdf "wikilink"))

During this talk we're going to discuss the security of the so called
internet-of-things (IOT),and have a better understanding of what it's
all about. This talk will give a broad overview of IOT , the major
vulnerabilities that are out there, challenges that exist in securing
the things , and what we as security people can do about it.

If you'd ever heard the IOT buzzword, and you want to know what it's all
about, this talk is for you.


<u>Speaker Bio</u>

Erez Metula is the founder and Chairman of AppSec Labs, a leading
company in the field of application security. He is the author of the
book Managed Code Rootkits, and is a world renowned application security
expert. Erez has extensive hands-on experience performing security
assessments, code reviews and secure development trainings for worldwide
organizations, and had previously talked at international security
conferences such as BlackHat, Defcon, OWASP, RSA, SOURCE, CanSecWest and
more. Erez had helped companies from all sizes, from startups to fortune
500 organizations. Erez focuses on advanced application security topics
and has performed extensive ground breaking research on mobile
application security. Erez holds an MSc in computer science and he is
CISSP.


<u>Speaker Bio</u>

There are people that do security research for a living, and there are
people who do it on their own time. Israel Chorzevski does both... he is
publically known for his lectures and professional trainings.

In addition to research, he is involved in a number of hacking projects,
such as AppUse (Android Testing Platform) and other tools which have and
are being developed in AppSec Labs as a part of his position as CTO of
the company.


<u>Technical Level:</u> Introduction
<u>Language:</u> Hebrew

### The Node.js Highway: Attacks are at Full Throttle

''''' Helen Bravo, Product Management Director at Checkmarx '''''
([download
presentation](Media:AppSecIL2015_NodeJS-Attacks_HelenBravo.pptx "wikilink"))

The popularity of the Node.js coding language is soaring. Just five
years after its debut, the language’s framework now boasts more 2
million downloads a month. It’s easy to understand why. This
event-driven language kept the simplicity of existing Web concepts and
trashed the complexities; applications built on Node.js do not require a
dedicated Web server to run; and Google is even pushing the language
with its enhanced V8 engine for the Google Chrome Web browser. In fact,
just consider Node.js as the drive-and-go language. But before
accelerating too quickly, it is important to understand the power – and
corresponding mishaps – of this language.

We’ll delve under-the-hood of the language’s engine and present our
6-month research into the Node.js language. In particular, we reveal new
attack techniques against applications built on top of this language.
This part of the talk includes demonstrations to engage the audience.

Attacks include:

  - Application-layer DDoS attacks. With just 4(\!) requests, a server
    is brought to its knees, effectively denying services from all users
    of the Node.js application.
  - Password exposure attacks. Leveraging the “Forgot My Password”
    feature of applications based on Node.js in order to reveal the
    passwords of all users of the application.
  - Business logic attacks. Running malicious code on all machines of
    users of the applications when exploiting a weak business feature
    due to the language’s inherent coupling of the application and the
    server it runs on.

This talk is not intended to put the brakes on Node.js. On the contrary,
this talk’s aim is to raise awareness to its security issues during
application development.


<u>Speaker Bio</u>

Helen has more than eighteen years of experience in software
development, IT security and source-code analysis. Prior to working at
Checkmarx, Helen has worked in Comverse one of the biggest Israeli
Hi-tech firms as a software engineer and product manager for security
matters. Helen holds a B.A. in Economics and Business Administration
from the Israeli University of Haifa and started her development career
at the age of 11.


<u>Technical Level:</u> Intermediate
<u>Language:</u> English

### Security Automation in the Agile SDLC - Real World Cases

''''' Ofer Maor, Director of Security Strategy, Synopsys '''''
How can we really automate secure coding? Agile, DevOps, Continuous
Integration, Orchestration, Static, Dynamic - There's an endless feed of
Buzzwords, but how can we turn this into a practice that really works?
In this session we will review real world examples of building a
successful automation process for delivery of secure software in fast
paced development environments.


<u>Speaker Bio</u>

Ofer Maor is a security expert and entrepreneur with over 20 years of
experience in information and application security. Ofer has been
involved in application security from its early days, through research,
penetration testing, consulting, and product development

As the founder and CTO of Seeker, Ofer pioneered IAST, the next
generation of application security testing technology, currently used by
some of the largest organizations in the world to continuously improve
their software security. Ofer joined Synopsys when it acquired Seeker in
July 2015.

Prior to Seeker, Ofer was the Founder and CTO of Hacktics. He led
Imperva's Application Defense Center research group and has also served
as the Chairman of OWASP Israel and in the OWASP Global Membership
Committee.


<u>Technical Level:</u> Advanced
<u>Language:</u> Hebrew

### The Spy in the Sandbox: Practical Cache Attacks in Javascript and their Implications

**המרגל בארגז החול: התקפות מטמון ב-Javascript, וההשלכות שלהן**
''''' Yossi Oren, Senior Lecturer at the Department of Information
Systems Engineering, Ben Gurion University '''''
([download
presentation](Media:AppSecIL2015_SpyInTheSandbox_YossiOren.pptx "wikilink"))

Side channel analysis is a remarkably powerful cryptanalytic technique.
It allows attackers to extract secret information hidden inside a secure
device, by analyzing the physical signals (e.g., power, heat) that the
device emits as it performs a secure computation. While the potency of
side-channel attacks is established without question, their application
to practical settings is debatable. The main limiting factor to the
practicality of side-channel attacks is the problematic attack model
they assume; with the exception of network-based timing attacks, most
side-channel attacks require the attacker be in “close proximity” to the
victim.

In this work, we challenge this limiting assumption by presenting a
successful side-channel attack that assumes a far more relaxed and
practical attacker model. In our model, the victim merely has to
\*access a website\* owned by the attacker using his personal computer.
Despite this minimal model, we show how the attacker can still launch a
side-channel attack in a practical time frame and extract meaningful
information from the system under attack. Defending against this attack
is possible, but the required countermeasures can exact an impractical
cost on benign uses of the browser.

Joint work with Vasileios P. Kemerlis, Angelos D. Keromytis and Simha
Sethumadhavan.


<u>Speaker Bio</u>

Yossi Oren is a senior lecturer at the Department of Information Systems
Engineering in Ben Gurion University, and a member of BGU's Cyber
Security Research Center. Prior to joining BGU, Yossi was a
Post-Doctoral Research Scientist in the Network Security Lab at Columbia
University in the City of New York and a member of the security lab at
Samsung Research Israel. He holds a Ph.D. in Electrical Engineering from
Tel-Aviv University, and an M.Sc. in Computer Science from the Weizmann
Institute of Science.

His research interests include secure hardware (power analysis and other
hardware attacks and countermeasures; low-resource cryptographic
constructions for lightweight computer) and cryptography in the real
world (consumer and voter privacy in the digital era; web application
security). He has been an attendee of OWASP IL since 2007.


<u>Technical Level:</u> Intermediate / Advanced
<u>Language:</u> English

### Man in the Cloud Attack

''' התקפת הברנש בענן *'
*''' Sagie Dulce, ADC TL, Imperva '''''
([download
presentation](Media:AppSecIL2015_Man-In-The-Cloud_SagieDulce.pptx "wikilink"))

File synchronization services, such as GoogleDrive, DropBox and others
are becoming widespread, both with private and corporate use. These
applications, while offering great convenience to their users, also
provide a hacker with ideal platform for C2 infrastructure. Instead of
setting up a new C2 server, an attacker simply needs to open a new cloud
storage account, or even use the victims account as the platform.

In our presentation we will examine how common cloud synchronization
services can be used by hackers to steal private and corporate data,
remain persistent on infected machines and avoid perimeter detection
mechanisms. All of this could be done from the attacker’s laptop,
without any exploits and without writing server side code.

Objective: Understand risks & mitigations of MitC attacks


<u>Speaker Bio</u>

Security researcher at IDF 8200. Researcher and now TL in Imperva's ADC
research team.

I write in Imperva's security blog and at times respond to press
security queries.


<u>Technical Level:</u> Intermediate
<u>Language:</u> Hebrew

### Game of Hacks: Play, Hack & Track

''''' Amit Ashbel, AppSec Strategist at Checkmarx '''''
([download
presentation](Media:AppSecIL2015_Game_of_Hacks_AmitAshbel.pptx "wikilink"))

We created “Game of Hacks”– a viral web app marketed as a tool to train
developers on secure coding – with the intention of building a honeypot.
Game of Hacks, built using the node.js framework, displays a range of
vulnerable code snippets challenging the player to locate the
vulnerability. A multiplayer option makes the challenge even more
attractive and the leaderboard spices up things when players compete for
a seat on the iron throne.

Within 24 hours we had 35K players test their hacking skills...we
weren't surprised when users started breaking the rules.

Join us to:

  - Play GoH against the audience in real time and get your claim for
    fame.
  - Understand how vulnerabilities were planted within Game of Hacks.
  - See real attack techniques (some caught us off guard) and how we
    handled them.
  - Learn how to avoid vulnerabilities in your code and how to go about
    designing a secure application.
  - Hear what to watch out for on the ultra-popular node.js framework.


<u>Speaker Bio</u>

Amit Ashbel joined Checkmarx from Trusteer (acquired by IBM). He has
been with the security community for more than a decade where he has
taken on multiple tasks and responsibilities over the years, including
technical and Senior Product lead positions. Amit adds valuable product
knowledge including experience with a wide range of security platforms
and familiarity with emerging threats and the hi-tech security industry.


<u>Technical Level:</u> Intermediate / Advanced
<u>Language:</u> Hebrew

### One Class to Rule Them All: Deserialization Vulnerabilities in Android

''''' Roee Hay, Application Security Research Team Lead, IBM X-Force
'''''
([download
presentation](Media:AppSecIL2015_OneClassToRuleThemAll_RoeeHay.pdf "wikilink"))

We present high severity vulnerabilities in Android.

The first is in the Android Platform and Google Play Services. The
Platform instance affects Android 4.3-5.1, M (Preview 1) or 55% of
Android devices at the time of writing. This vulnerability allows for
arbitrary code execution in the context of many apps and services and
results in elevation of privileges. In this talk we also demonstrate a
Proof-of-Concept exploit against the Google Nexus 5 device, that
achieves code execution inside the highly privileged system_server
process, and then either replaces an existing arbitrary application on
the device with our own malware app or changes the device’s SELinux
policy. For some other devices, we are also able to gain kernel code
execution by loading an arbitrary kernel module. We had responsibly
disclosed the vulnerability to Android Security Team which tagged it as
CVE-2015-3825 (internally as ANDROID-21437603/21583894) and patched
Android 4.4 / 5.x / M and Google Play Services.

For the sake of completeness we also made a large scale experiment over
32,701 of Android applications, finding similar deserialization
vulnerabilities, identified by CVE-2015-2000/1/2/3/4/20, in 6 SDKs
affecting multiple apps. We responsibly (privately) contacted the SDKs’
vendors or code maintainers so they would provide patches. Further
analysis showed that many of the SDKs were vulnerable due to weak code
generated by SWIG, an interoperability tool that connects C/C++ with
variety of languages, when fed with some bad configuration given by the
developer. We therefore worked closely with the SWIG team to make sure
it would generate more robust code — patches are available.


<u>Speaker Bio</u>

Roee leads the X-Force Application Security Research Team at IBM
Security. His team focuses on discovering new vulnerabilities and
attacks. In recent years, his team has discovered several high severity
vulnerabilities in the Android Platform and SDKs.


<u>Technical Level:</u> Advanced
<u>Language:</u> Hebrew

# Track 2 - Room 10

### 0x3E9 Ways to DIE

''' מת לחיות 0x3E9 *'
*''' Yaniv Balmas, Security Researcher, Check Point Software
Technologies '''''
([download
presentation](Media:AppSecIL2015_0x3E9WaysToDIE_YanivBalmas.pdf "wikilink"))

Along the years many attempts have been made to combine static and
dynamic analysis results. Some were good, other were bad, however the
fact is that those two approaches still remain mostly separated as most
analysis tools focus on one of them only.

For many years, this lack of integration and mental passing of data
between static and dynamic tools has caused lot of frustration among
researchers.

This was the main motivation in creating DIE.

DIE is a new Hex-Rays IDA plugin that crosses the static-dynamic gap
directly into the native IDA GUI. It gives the researcher access to
runtime values from within his standard dissembler screen.

As opposed to previous projects with similar goals, DIE takes a
different approach by using an extensive plugin framework which allows
the community to constantly add logic in order to better analyze and
optimize the retrieved runtime values. With a click of a button,
everything is accessible to the researcher: he can inspect handles
passed to a function, analyze injected code or runtime strings,
enumerate dynamic structures, follow indirect function calls and more
(and the list keeps on growing). All of this happens without the
researcher ever leaving his comfortable dissembler screen.

Even better, as DIE is tightly coupled with IDA, it will basically
support any architecture, data type or signature supported by IDA.

DIE currently has a small but well-respected community of contributors.
Starting with the alpha version, DIE users have been able to cut their
research time by 20%-40%. As complex reverse engineering tasks may take
several weeks or even several months to complete, DIE has already proved
to be a valuable resource and a prominent part of the researcher\`s
toolkit.

DIE was first introduced to the public at RECON-2015 and received
amazing feedbacks. Today, we will introduce its secrets to the respected
Israeli research community.

During this talk I will explain the basic idea behind DIE, describe its
architecture, and show live examples of how to use its extensive plugin
framework to speed up the research process.

The talk includes \*live examples\* which have been carefully selected
from real research projects in various security fields and demonstrate
how DIE can be used to speed up bypassing software protections, unpack
malware, and super-quickly locate a malware de-obfuscation functions.


<u>Speaker Bio</u>

Yaniv is a software engineer and a seasoned professional in the security
field. He wrote his very first piece of code in BASIC on the new
Commodore-64 he got for his 8th birthday.

As a teenager, he spent his time looking for ways to hack computer games
and break BBS software. This soon led to diving into more serious
programming, and ultimately, the security field where he has been ever
since. Yaniv is currently leading the malware research team at Check
Point Software Technologies where he deals mainly with analyzing malware
and researching vulnerabilities.


<u>Technical Level:</u> Advanced
<u>Language:</u> English

### From zero to secure in 1 minute

''''' Moshe Ferber, Chairman, Cloud Security Alliance Israel '''''
([download
presentation](Media:AppSecIL2015_From_zero_to_secure_in_1_minute_MosheFerber.pdf "wikilink"))

Companies moving to cloud infrastructure (IaaS) discover that they can
do amazing things with the automation of infrastructure tasks. Companies
can deploy environments in seconds and do production changes several
times a day - but security still holds them down. Many of our security
procedures have not adopted to cloud automation and still relay on
traditional maintenance windows and manual tasks such as static /
dynamic analysis, vulnerability scans, hardening and more. And this is a
major obstacle in a world where cloud instance can be installed,
configured moved to production and terminate within an hour. So security
must to adopt to this new accelerated life cycle and change accordingly.
In this presentation, we will demonstrate how to automate creation of
instances, generating and safeguarding encryption keys, do configuration
management and security scans and automatically process the results and
take decisions accordingly. The result is cloud instances that are
launched and configured with security requirements in automated way
within minutes. Implementing the techniques and tools shown can help
organizations to overcome security challenges and make sure that
security is not the bottleneck on the way to faster applications
deployments.


<u>Speaker Bio</u>

Moshe Ferber is world known cloud security industry expert. Involved in
shaping the foundations of responsible cloud adoption. He is a major
contributor and instructor for the CCSK & CCSP cloud security
certifications and involved in many of the working groups that define
tomorrow standards and best practices. Mr. Ferber is also a popular
industry speaker with numerous appearances worldwide and serves as the
chairman for the Israeli chapter of the Cloud Security Alliance.


<u>Technical Level:</u> Intermediate
<u>Language:</u> Hebrew

### Why Are Hackers Winning the Mobile Malware Battle

''''' Yair Amit, CTO & Co-Founder, Skycure '''''
([download
presentation](Media:AppSecIL2015_MobileMalwareBattle_YairAmit.pptx "wikilink"))

In the proverbial game of cat-and-mouse between endpoint security
vendors and malware writers, malware attacks have recently grown more
sophisticated. More enterprises are losing ground to hackers, who are
able to outmaneuver static and runtime solutions by constantly changing
their attack strategies. In his presentation, Yair will break down the
current set of techniques (signatures, static analysis, dynamic
analysis, social cyber-intelligence) used to identify malware on mobile
devices, and identify the pros and cons of these approaches. He will
also explain why attackers constantly succeed in fooling these
technologies, and explore the problem of false positive/false negative
tradeoffs in such solutions. In order to demonstrate the aforementioned,
Yair will create on stage a malicious mobile app live, which can bypass
signatures, static and dynamic analysis approaches.

Audience will learn:

  - The attack paths mobile hackers are taking
  - What actions organizations can take to mitigate malware risks
  - How security vendors can change their paradigms to improve their
    defenses


<u>Speaker Bio</u>

Yair Amit is co-founder and CTO at Skycure, where he leads the company’s
research, vision and its R\&D center. He has been active in the security
industry for more than a decade, his research regularly covered by media
outlets and presented in security conferences around the world (Mr. Amit
is a regular and top-rated speaker of RSA Conference). Prior to
co-founding Skycure, Yair managed the Application Security and Research
Group at IBM, joining through the acquisition of Watchfire. At IBM, Yair
led the research and implementation of IBM’s next-generation application
security technology. Yair holds a BSc, summa cum laude, from Tel Aviv
University in bioinformatics.


<u>Technical Level:</u> Advanced
<u>Language:</u> Hebrew

### Too Big to Fail - Breaking WordPress Core

''''' Netanel Rubin, Senior Vulnerability Researcher, PerimeterX '''''
([download
presentation](Media:AppSecIL2015_Too_Big_to_Fail_-_Breaking_WordPress_Core_NetanelRubin.pdf "wikilink"))

When attacking web applications, what do you do when there are no
injection points? No false-assumptions? No logical errors? Most of the
times you just move on, perhaps look for bad code in a different
component or third party plugin. What if that target is just too
important to give up on? What if your target is the most popular web
platform in the world?

This talk will focus on the recent vulnerabilities found in WordPress
core, one of the most securely written web apps in the world. We will
begin with a carefully orchestrated race condition leading to Privilege
Escalation, and all the way to SQL injection and persistent XSS attacks,
in 20% of the top 1M sites on the Internet. We will dive deep into a
system that seems un-penetrable, and analyze a chain of bugs no one
thought exploitable, in order to describe one of the most interesting
WebApp vulnerabilities in CMS history.

Join us for a journey through the eyes of one researcher who made it to
core WordPress and lived, to get a glimpse of how one searches for
vulnerabilities in massive code and how to catch oh-so-important
developer misses.


<u>Speaker Bio</u>

Netanel is a senior vulnerability researcher that has several
significant findings under his belt.

Starting his security career at the age of 16, Netanel performed
security assessments for many international companies and organizations,
including banks and government offices.

Following a meaningful military service in the IDF elite intelligence
unit 8200, he joined Check Point Software Technologies, and later on
PerimeterX. In the past few years, his work was presented in several
international conferences such as DEF CON and CCC.


<u>Technical Level:</u> Advanced
<u>Language:</u> Hebrew

### Cross-Site Search Attacks

''''' Hemi Leibowitz, Cyber Security Researcher at Bar Ilan University
and a lecturer at the College of Management '''''
([download
presentation](Media:AppSecIL2015_Cross-Site-Search-Attacks_HemiLeibowitz.pdf "wikilink"))

Cross-site search (XS-search) attacks circumvent the same-origin policy
and extract sensitive information, by using the time it takes for the
browser to receive responses to search queries. This side-channel is
usually considered impractical, due to the limited attack duration and
high variability of delays. This may be true for naive XS-search
attacks; however, we show that the use of better tools facilitates
effective XS-search attacks, exposing information efficiently and
precisely.

We present and evaluate three types of tools: (1) appropriate
statistical tests, (2) amplification of the timing side-channel, by
\`inflating' communication or computation, and (3) optimized, tailored
divide-and-conquer algorithms, to identify terms from large
\`dictionaries'. These techniques may be applicable in other scenarios.

We implemented and evaluated the attacks against the popular Gmail and
Bing services, in several environments and ethical experiments, taking
careful, IRB-approved measures to avoid exposure of personal
information.


<u>Speaker Bio</u>

Lecturer at the College of Management. Research member of the cyber
research at Bar Ilan University. Main interest fields are the security
of communication networks and designing robust anonymous communication
systems against strong attackers.


<u>Technical Level:</u> Intermediate
<u>Language:</u> Hebrew

### Certifi-gate - Front Door Access to Pwning hundreds of Millions of Androids Devices: The Aftermath.

''''' Shai Yanovski, Security Analytics Product Manager, Check Point
'''''
Hundreds of millions of Android devices, including those running
Lollipop, the latest and most secure version of Android OS, can be
hijacked. A comprehensive study has revealed the existence of multiple
instances of a fundamental flaw within the Android customisation chain
that leave millions of devices (and users) vulnerable to attack.

These vulnerabilities allow an attacker to take advantage of unsecure
apps certified by OEMs and carriers to gain unfettered access to any
device, including screen scraping, key logging, private information
exfiltration, back door app installation, and more. In this session,
Lacoon researchers will walk through the technical root cause of these
responsibly-disclosed vulnerabilities including hash collisions, IPC
abuse and certificate forging which allow an attacker to grant their
malware complete control of a victims device. We'll explain why these
vulnerabilities are a serious problem that in some ways can't be
completely eliminated, show how attackers exploit them, demonstrate an
exploit against a live device, and provide remediation advice.


<u>Speaker Bio</u>

Shai is responsible for turning Check Point’s cutting edge research in
cyber threats, mobile technology and analysis algorithms into a
world-class security solution providing organizations with protection
from mobile threats.

Shai has a proven track record of turning advanced research and
technology into products that solves complex problems. He brings more
than 12 years of experience in cyber security, data analytics and
product management to Check Point.

Prior to Check Point, Shai collaborated with a range of private sector
companies and government organizations on diverse projects such as
nano-particles toxicology, military helicopter fault detection,
terrorist activity detection in communications networks and cyber
security, including an award winning project Shai lead while he served
as an officer in the elite technology unit of the Israeli Intelligence
Corp.

He received his BSc in Industrial Engineering and Management from Tel
Aviv University where he was a member of the Applied Machine Learning
Research Lab.


<u>Technical Level:</u> Intermediate / Advanced
<u>Language:</u> Hebrew

### Theories of Agile, Fails of Security

''' הצילו, אבטחת מידע אג'ילית\! *'
*''' Daniel Liber, R\&D Security Leader, CyberArk '''''
([download
presentation](Media:AppSecIL2015_Theories_of_Agile_Fails_of_Security_DanielLiber.pptx "wikilink"))

Buzzwords about Agile are flying around in overwhelming speed, talks
about Scrum, Kanban, XP and other methodologies and practices are
thoroughly discussed while security is still left as a 'high level' talk
or sometimes as understanding how to adapt from traditional development
methodologies. Some best practices will leave you scratching your head,
unsure what was the original intention and without understanding how to
implement security in Agile, effectively. This lecture will bring the
all the undocumented failures during such process, and best ways of
avoiding them prior to experiencing them.


<u>Speaker Bio</u>

Daniel Liber is the R\&D security leader in CyberArk, a leader in
securing enterprises against cyber attacks that take cover behind
insider privileges and attack critical enterprise assets. Previously he
has worked as an application security consultant for Comsec Consulting,
working with customers from industries such as banking, finance, telecom
and governmental offices. Daniel also served as a principle security
team leader at Bank Leumi (Israel) with focusing on building secure
mobile and web applications. Daniel is enthusiastic about security
communities, exchanging ideas for research and promoting security, step
by step.


<u>Technical Level:</u> Intermediate / Advanced
<u>Language:</u> English


*The presentations at AppSecIL were selected through an open [Call for
Presentations](AppSec_Israel_2015_CFP "wikilink"), and everyone was
invited to submit a proposal for a presentation.*

[Category:Israel](Category:Israel "wikilink")
[Category:AppSec_Israel_2015](Category:AppSec_Israel_2015 "wikilink")