The annual [OWASP AppSec Israel
Conference](AppSec_Israel_2016 "wikilink") is the largest conference in
Israel for application security, and regularly draws hundreds of
participants. Over 550 people attended last year\!

Whether you have a product to showcase, offering a service, or you are
recruiting, sponsoring the [OWASP AppSec Israel
event](AppSec_Israel_2016 "wikilink") gets you the right exposure. This
year we are expecting well over 600 attendees, including security
professionals, developers, managers, and more. The conference will take
place this year on Monday, September 19th, 2016, at The College of
Management (Michlala l’Minhal), in Rishon LeZion.

Sponsoring the [AppSecIL](AppSec_Israel_2016 "wikilink") conference also
helps support the OWASP community, and ensures that we can keep on
making our conferences better and better. Sponsorship fees are intended
to cover the costs of the conference. Since the conference is open to
all and free of charge to attend, we need your support to enable us to
put on a great conference.

**Past sponsors include Check Point, Microsoft, F5, IBM, Ernst & Young,
Checkmarx, Imperva, Akamai, Synopsys, and many others**

OWASP is an open source, non-profit organization. While our activities
are free for all, we do have costs, and need your help to make our
activities better.

We are now offering Silver, Gold and Platinum sponsorship levels. There
is also a cost-effective “Community Supporter” option for non-profits,
government offices, small startups, and such. Of course, if you are a
Corporate Member of OWASP (at any level) and allocate a percentage
(20-40%) of your membership fees to the Israel chapter, we consider
those funds as conference sponsorship accordingly.

For more details and to confirm your sponsorship, please contact [Or
Katz](mailto:katz3112@gmail.com).

### What You Get for Sponsoring

All sponsors, regardless of sponsorship level receive the following:

  - Many thanks, and hopefully a very good feeling of helping the
    community.

<!-- end list -->

  - Access to all the tools, guides, and libraries OWASP makes available
    for everybody - if you benefit from these, support the
    organization\!

<!-- end list -->

  - Logo on the conference page.

<!-- end list -->

  - Preference for hosting a chapter meeting in the coming year, based
    on schedule and other considerations.

<!-- end list -->

  - In general, if there is something else specific that you may want,
    and is within the OWASP guidelines, please let us know.

#### Platinum Sponsors

  - 3 Maximum.

<!-- end list -->

  - Largest booth area, where you can put up a "roll up" poster or two,
    and even a "pop-up" style booth (space permitting) to hand out your
    brochures and freebies.

<!-- end list -->

  - Prime booth location and first choice.

<!-- end list -->

  - Largest logo on the top of the conference page.

<!-- end list -->

  - Logo on the chapter page for the whole year.

<!-- end list -->

  - Recognition in all conference literature.

<!-- end list -->

  - Explicit mention in conference Opening Speech.

<!-- end list -->

  - Price: $3000 USD

#### Gold Sponsors

  - A table top style mini booth where you can put up a "roll up" poster
    or two and hand out your brochures and freebies.

<!-- end list -->

  - Good booth location and early choice.

<!-- end list -->

  - Large logo near the top of the conference page.

<!-- end list -->

  - Logo on the chapter page for the whole year.

<!-- end list -->

  - Recognition in all conference literature.

<!-- end list -->

  - Collective mention in conference Opening Speech.

<!-- end list -->

  - Price: $2000 USD

#### Silver Sponsors

  - A small table top style mini booth where you can put up a "roll up"
    poster and hand out your brochures and freebies.

<!-- end list -->

  - Smaller logo on the conference page.

<!-- end list -->

  - Recognition in some conference literature.

<!-- end list -->

  - Passive mention in conference Opening Speech.

<!-- end list -->

  - Price: $1000 USD

#### Community Supporters

  - The "Community Supporter" level of sponsorship is intended for
    non-profits, government offices, small startups, and other
    organizations with limited finances, but wish to show their support
    for the local OWASP chapter.

<!-- end list -->

  - Small logo on the conference page.

<!-- end list -->

  - Community Supporters do not get a booth or table at the sponsor's
    display area, but you can leave a stack of fliers or swag at a
    central table.

<!-- end list -->

  - Price: $500 USD

-----

#### Additional A La Carte Opportunities

In addition to the above, sponsors can choose to provide additional
conference items, such as:

  - **Lanyards** - Providing branded lanyards for all attendees.

<!-- end list -->

  - **Sponsored Badges** – Covering the costs of badges with name tags
    for all conference attendees, with your logo on each badge (either a
    small logo in front, or a larger one in the back).

<!-- end list -->

  - **Conference T-shirts** - Sponsoring conference T-shirts with the
    sponsoring company logo on the T-Shirt, in addition to the
    conference and OWASP logos.

<!-- end list -->

  - **Premium coffee stands** - Fund the cost of two espresso /
    cappuccino stands in the event. The sponsor will be acknowledged,
    and can provide an additional rollup in the vicinity of the coffee
    stands. Additionally, the sponsor may opt for providing branded cups
    instead of normal cups, with the sponsor's logo in addition to the
    conference logo.

<!-- end list -->

  - **Happy hour / beer break** - Supply beer (or any other type of
    drinks you choose) for an informal evening social event. The sponsor
    will be acknowledged for that activity.

<!-- end list -->

  - **Prizes** - Each sponsor can have a raffle for special prizes at
    the end of the conference (based on collection of participants
    details in their booth). Winners can be announced on the main stage,
    and on the conference website or mailing lists.

<!-- end list -->

  - **Video recording** - The sponsor will commit to bringing
    professional video and sound equipment, as well as staff to record
    all lectures in two rooms, and to edit and upload everything to
    OWASP after the conference. In addition to acknowledgement, the
    sponsor will be allowed to include a logo or vendor name (details to
    be discussed).

It is also possible to be creative and find non-financial ways to
support us and contribute to the successful running of the conference.
If you have any other ideas please contact
[AviD](mailto:douglen@hotmail.com) or [Or
Katz](mailto:katz3112@gmail.com) directly.

### What You Don't Get

  - List of people registering or attending. You can collect these by
    yourself in the booth, for example by offering a prize for people
    filling in details.

<!-- end list -->

  - A lecture for money. The conference program is strictly selected on
    professional terms, there is absolutely no "pay-for-play".

### What We Need Your Money For

OWASP is very strictly not-for-profit. We use the sponsorship funds to
help make our events even more compelling to the audience while striving
to make them free for participants. We want more people to come to our
events so we can educate them about making applications more secure.

We use the money collected from sponsors for things such as:

  - **Lecture videos** - recording presentations enables them to be
    available also to people who cannot make it to the conference, and
    further publicize the contents of the event.

<!-- end list -->

  - **Venue costs** - this year's conference is being hosted in
    partnership with the College of Management, so we have minimal
    direct costs for use of the halls. However there are additional
    associated costs, for some of the involved logistics such as hiring
    required equipment.

<!-- end list -->

  - **Refreshments** - we want to keep people a long time, and we
    certainly bring good and interesting speakers, yet we don't want
    people to go home when they become hungry.

<!-- end list -->

  - **Name tags** - we feel that professional networking and getting to
    know each other is an important facet of the community, and name
    tags make this easier.

<!-- end list -->

  - **Promotion** - Till now, our events are publicized mostly by word
    of mouth. We would like to get to a wider audience by advertising
    our events.

<!-- end list -->

  - **Printed Materials** - We are not very keen on killing trees, but
    some people learn more from actual printed paper. We would like to
    hand out certain printed materials in our conferences.

By the way, if you feel that you can contribute to any of these in any
way besides money, we will be happy to hear about it.

### What Should You Prepare as a Sponsor

As a sponsor, you are not obliged to do anything. Sponsorship can be a
philanthropy. However, in order to take advantage of the benefits listed
above, we recommend the following:

  - Send us a logo file to put on the conference web page. (Note the
    maximum logo size according to the sponsorship level).

<!-- end list -->

  - Prepare a roll-up type poster or equivalent for your table top
    booth.

<!-- end list -->

  - Prepare brochures for handing out to conference attendees.

<!-- end list -->

  - You might also want to hold a sweepstake between people who fill in
    their details in order to collect leads. We will be happy to
    announce the prize on the main stage, and on the conference page.

<!-- end list -->

  - Come 30 minutes before the conference starts to setup your booth.

For further details contact [Or Katz](mailto:katz3112@gmail.com).

## Not-for-Profit / Barter Sponsorship of OWASP IL Conferences

We are happy to allow any information-security-related not-for-profit
organization to present at our conference expo. You will get, for free,
the same benefits that the commercial vendors get. The only condition is
that if you hold similar events we would like to present at those events
in return.

We extend the same type of barter to commercial organizations that hold
events. If you organize an information security related event, we would
let you promote it in our expo in return for having presence in your
event.

Contact [Or Katz](mailto:katz3112@gmail.com) for further details.

[Category:Israel](Category:Israel "wikilink")
[Category:AppSec_Israel_2016](Category:AppSec_Israel_2016 "wikilink")
[Category:OWASP_AppSec_Conference](Category:OWASP_AppSec_Conference "wikilink")