__NOTOC__

![LogoAppSecBrazil.002.jpg](LogoAppSecBrazil.002.jpg
"LogoAppSecBrazil.002.jpg")

**Para a versão em português, veja em [AppSec Brasil 2010
(pt-br)](AppSec_Brasil_2010_\(pt-br\) "wikilink")**

# OWASP AppSec Brasil 2010

The Second Edition of OWASP's flagship conference in South America will
happen in Campinas, SP, Brazil. The Conference consists of two days of
training sessions, followed by a two-day conference on a single track.

<center>

![AppSec_Brasil_2010_Campinas.jpg](AppSec_Brasil_2010_Campinas.jpg
"AppSec_Brasil_2010_Campinas.jpg")

</center>

## Conference Dates

The conference will happen from **November 16th, 2010 to November 19th,
2010**. The first two days will be tutorial days (see below). Plenary
sessions will be held on November 18th and 19th.

#### About

## About the conference

Following the success of the first AppSec Brasil, held in Brasilia in
2009, the OWASP Brazilian Chapter is organizing its second edition in
2010. AppSec Brasil 2010 will happen in the city of Campinas, located 90
km from São Paulo.

Campinas is the 3rd biggest city in the State of São Paulo and is an
important economic center and hosts major universities and research
centers. It is known to concentrate several high tech industries,
including important multi-national companies in the fields of
electronics, telecom and chemicals.

This year, we expect to gather a number of Brazilian and Latin American
practitioners and researchers to share state-of-the-art information
about application security.

#### Sponsorship

We are currently soliciting sponsors for the AppSec Brasil 2010
Conference. Detailed [sponsorship
oportunities](Media:OWASP_-_Sponsorship_Opportunities_-_EN_V.1.2.pdf "wikilink")
are now available.

If you are interested in sponsoring AppSec Brasil 2010, please contact
the Conference Organization Team (organizacao2010@appsecbrasil.org).

## Sponsors

## Platinum Sponsors

|                                                                                              |
| -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| ![AppSec_Brasil_2010_CPQD.jpg](AppSec_Brasil_2010_CPQD.jpg "AppSec_Brasil_2010_CPQD.jpg") |
|                                                                                              |
|                                                                                              |

## Gold Sponsors

<table>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td><figure>
<img src="LeadComm_Logo_Screen.jpg" title="LeadComm_Logo_Screen.jpg" alt="LeadComm_Logo_Screen.jpg" width="150" /><figcaption>LeadComm_Logo_Screen.jpg</figcaption>
</figure></td>
<td><p>width="50"</p></td>
<td><p><br />
</p></td>
<td><figure>
<img src="Logo_PagSeguro-Uma_empresa-UOL.jpg" title="Logo_PagSeguro-Uma_empresa-UOL.jpg" alt="Logo_PagSeguro-Uma_empresa-UOL.jpg" width="150" /><figcaption>Logo_PagSeguro-Uma_empresa-UOL.jpg</figcaption>
</figure></td>
<td><p>width="50"</p></td>
<td><p><br />
</p></td>
<td><figure>
<img src="isc2_new_logo.jpg" title="isc2_new_logo.jpg" alt="isc2_new_logo.jpg" width="250" /><figcaption>isc2_new_logo.jpg</figcaption>
</figure></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p> </p></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

## Silver Sponsors

|                                                                                                    |
| -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| ![AppSec_Brasil_2010_Serpro.png](AppSec_Brasil_2010_Serpro.png "AppSec_Brasil_2010_Serpro.png") |
|                                                                                                    |



### Attendee Kit Sponsors

<table>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td><figure>
<img src="Logotipo_Conviso_2009_Cor.png" title="Logotipo_Conviso_2009_Cor.png" alt="Logotipo_Conviso_2009_Cor.png" width="150" /><figcaption>Logotipo_Conviso_2009_Cor.png</figcaption>
</figure></td>
<td><p>width="50"</p></td>
<td><p><br />
</p></td>
<td><figure>
<img src="lgClavis.png" title="lgClavis.png" alt="lgClavis.png" width="110" /><figcaption>lgClavis.png</figcaption>
</figure></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p> </p></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>



## Promoted by

<center>

![Image:Appsec Brasil 2010
InstitutoTuring.png](Appsec_Brasil_2010_InstitutoTuring.png
"Image:Appsec Brasil 2010 InstitutoTuring.png")

</center>

## Local Promotion

<center>

[100px](image:Anggulo-appsec-brasil.jpg "wikilink")

</center>

#### Keynotes

## Robert 'Rsnake' Hansen

[SecTheory](http://www.sectheory.com/)

***Title:*** **The Humble Cookie**

***Abstract:*** The simplest thing in our browser that has caused the
most confusion and worry is the cookie. This presentation will discuss
what it is, how cookies work, the little known aspects of them, and
dozens of attacks to steal them, set them, crack them or abuse trust
based on them.

***Bio:*** Robert Hansen aka RSnake is the CEO and founder of SecTheory.
He has worked for Digital Island, Exodus Communications and Cable &
Wireless in varying roles from Sr. Security Architect and eventually
product managing many of the managed security services product lines. He
also worked at eBay as a Sr. Global Product Manager of Trust and Safety,
focusing on anti-phishing, anti-DHTML malware and anti-virus strategies.
Later he worked as a director of product management for Realtor.com.
Robert sits on the advisory board for the Intrepidus Group, previously
sat on the technical advisory board of ClickForensics and currently
contributes to the security strategy of several startup companies.

Mr. Hansen wrote Detecting Malice, authors content on O'Reilly and
co-authored "XSS Exploits" by Syngress publishing. He sits on the
NIST.gov Software Assurance Metrics and Tool Evaluation group focusing
on web application security scanners and the Web Application Security
Scanners Evaluation Criteria (WASC-WASSEC) group. He also has briefed
the DoD at the Pentagon and speaks at SourceBoston, Secure360,
GFIRST/US-CERT, CSI, Toorcon, APWG, ISSA, TRISC, World OWASP/WASC
conferences, SANS, Microsoft's Bluehat, Blackhat, DefCon, SecTor,
BSides, Networld+Interop, and has been the keynote speaker at the New
York Cyber Security Conference, NITES and OWASP Appsec Asia. Mr. Hansen
is a member of Infragard, West Austin Rotary, WASC, IACSP, APWG,
contributed to the OWASP 2.0 guide and is on the OWASP Connections
Committee.

Robert also maintains the <http://ha.ckers.org> website where he discuss
web application security and provides lots of useful content to be used
against web application attacks.

## Jeremiah Grossman

[WhiteHat Security](http://www.whitehatsec.com/)

***Title:*** **Facilitating Application Security Maturity**

***Abstract:*** Over the last ten years a fast growing number of
organizations, from the largest of the large to the smallest of the
small, are truly starting to "get" Web application security. They are
also learning that application security success does not happen
overnight. Experience and results, especially results, takes time. Some
organizations have indeed demonstrated an ability to improve faster than
others. The question is, how? What separates the leaders from the
laggards is the way their teams utilize time and allocate resources to
best facilitate application security maturity.

Having worked with hundreds of organizations, many of which easily
considered leaders in their industry, what I've found is a consistent
set of stages that characterize where on the maturity continuum they are
located. This is insight is key. An application security professional's
ability to quickly identify a given organizations current stage of
maturity is vital. For example, a trusted advisor may provide a new
student different guidance than to that of a subject matter expert
facing identical challenges. It is all about isolating needs,
encouraging progression, and serving outcomes that are in the best
interests of all involved. By sharing my related personal experiences I
hope to facilitate the application maturity of the entire industry.

***Bio:*** Jeremiah Grossman, founder and CTO, WhiteHat Security, is a
world-renowned Web security expert. A co-founder of the Web Application
Security Consortium (WASC), he was named to InfoWorld's Top 25 CTOs in
2007 and is frequently quoted by business and technical media. He has
authored dozens of articles and whitepapers, is credited with the
discovery of many cutting-edge attack and defensive techniques, and is a
co-author of "XSS Attacks: Cross Site Scripting Exploits and Defense."
Grossman is also an influential blogger who offers insight and
encourages open dialogue regarding Web security research and trends.
Prior to WhiteHat, Grossman was an information security officer at
Yahoo\!



#### Invited Speakers

## Samy Kamkar

***Title:*** **How I Met Your Girlfriend: The discovery and execution of
entirely new classes of Web attacks in order to meet your girlfriend.**

***Abstract:*** This includes entertaining and newly discovered attacks
including PHP session prediction and random numbers (accurately guessing
PHP session cookies), browser protocol confusion (turning a browser into
an SMTP server), firewall and NAT penetration via Javascript (turning
your router against you), remote iPhone Google Maps hijacking (iPhone
penetration combined with HTTP man-in-themiddle), extracting extremely
accurate geolocation information from a Web browser (not using IP
geolocation), and more.

***Bio:*** Samy Kamkar is best known for the Samy worm, the first XSS
worm, infecting over one million users on MySpace in less than 24 hours.
A cofounder of Fonality, Inc., an IP PBX company, Samy previously led
the development of all top-level domain name server software and systems
for Global Domains International (.ws).

In the past 10 years, Samy has focused on evolutionary and genetic
algorithmic software development, Voice over IP software development,
automated security and vulnerability research in network security,
reverse engineering, and network gaming. When not strapped behind the
Matrix, Samy can be found stunt driving and getting involved in local
community service projects.

## Mano Paul

***Title:*** **Wild Wild Wild Security Planet**

***Abstract:*** Organisms keep themselves safe in a world that's every
bit as unpredictable as our world. This presentation will parallel what
we can learn from the world of art, literature, science, nature and
apply it to the world of software security. For e.g., If Shakespeare had
to write about software security, what would he write? What does a naked
motorist have to do with loose lips that sink ships? What does pH have
to do with software vulnerabilities? What does the Stick Insects'
regenerative ability have to do with software 'bugs'? or can the Ostrich
sticking its head in the sand behavior reflect the modicum of risk
management we observe today and many more ...

The talk would be a fun-filled, extremely interactive session covering
various concepts of security from risk management, defense in depth,
secure programming, threats and vulnerabilities and compliance and more
... Come to find out the answers to the questions above and see what it
takes to develop software with a security mindset throughout its life
cycle. Come and look at software security from a different perspective
that would make ALL the difference for you and your company.

***Bio:*** ![Mano_Paul.jpg](Mano_Paul.jpg "Mano_Paul.jpg") <b>Shark
Researcher turned Security Guru\!</b>
<b>Manoranjan (Mano) Paul</b> (CSSLP, CISSP, AMBCI, MCSD, MCAD, CompTIA
Network+, ECSA) is the Founder and CEO at [SecuRisk
Solutions](http://www.securisksolutions.com) and [Express
Certifications](http://www.expresscertifications.com). Based out of
Austin, Texas in the USA, SecuRisk Solutions specializes in three areas
of information security solutions - Product Development, Consulting and
Awareness, Training & Education while Express Certifications focuses on
professional certifications like the CISSP, SSCP, CSSLP and the BCI
certificate.

Before SecuRisk Solutions and Express Certifications, Mano played
several roles from software developer, quality assurance tester,
logistics manager, technical architect, IT strategist and Security
Engineer/Program Manager/Strategist at Dell Inc. His information
security experience includes designing and developing software security
programs from Compliance-to-Coding, application security risk
management, security strategy & management, and conducting security
awareness training and education.

Mano started his career as a shark researcher in the Bimini Biological
Field Station, Bahamas. His educational pursuit took him to the
University of Oklahoma where he received his Business Administration
degree in Management Information Systems (MIS) with various accolades
and the coveted 4.0 GPA. He was a member and chair of the OWASP Global
Education Committee and actively participates in OWASP speaking,
training and leadership events. He is also the appointed Software
Assurance Advisor for (ISC)<sup>2</sup>, representing and advising the
organization on software assurance strategy, training, education and
certification. He is an appointed faculty member and industry
representative of the Capitol of Texas Information System Security
Association (ISSA) chapter.

Mano has been featured in various domestic and international security
conferences and is an invited speaker and panelist, delivering talks and
keynotes in conferences such as the OWASP, CSI, Burton Group Catalyst,
TRISC and SC World Congress conferences. He is the author of the
Official (ISC)<sup>2</sup> Guide to the Certified Secure Software
Lifecycle Professional (CSSLP<sup>CM</sup>), contributing author for the
Information Security Management Handbook, writes periodically for the
Certification Magazine and has contributed to several security topics
for the Microsoft Solutions Developer Network (MSDN).

Mano is married to whom he calls the “most wonderful and sacrificial
person in this world” - Sangeetha Johnson and their greatest fulfillment
comes from spending time with the son – Reuben A Paul (RAP).

## Chris Hofmann

***Title:*** **Making the Next Generation of Browsers More Secure.**

***Abstract:*** Chris will talk about security features going into
Firefox 4 and other next generation browsers including CSP, CSS history
sniffing fixes, STS, and more. We will also talk about how you can get
involved and provide input in development, testing, and using these
features that will shaping the future of the web.

***Bio:*** As director of engineering and Special Projects at the
Mozilla Foundation and Corporation over the last 7 years, Chris Hofmann
has spearheaded the research and development work of thousands of open
source contributors around the world.

A Netscape employee before joining Mozilla, Chris contributed to every
Netscape and Mozilla browser release since 1996.

As the first employee at the Mozilla Foundation in August 2003, Chris
led a small but devoted team of the original ten engineers that
established the Mozilla Foundation as an independent and self-sustaining
organization.

In 2004, Chris managed and executed the first worldwide release of
Mozilla Firefox 1.0. Firefox 1.0 helped to fulfill the Mozilla
Foundation’s goal of supporting open Web standards and provide
innovation and choice for Internet client software and set Firefox on a
path to remarkable market share growth over the last several years.

Chris now helps to build and strengthen Mozilla communities around the
world. These contributors and communities are involved with localization
of Firefox in to over 70 languages, extend Firefox with Addons, and
provide support to Firefox users. He engages with security researchers
to help improve browser security and manages Mozilla's Security Bug
Bounty Program. He is also interested in engaging, helping, and
promoting the work done in companies and large institutions to deploy
Firefox use and Mozilla technology.

#### Speakers

## Cassio Goldschmidt

Symantec

***Title:*** **Responsibility for the Harm and Risk of Software Security
Flaws**

***Abstract:*** Who is responsible for the harm and risk of security
flaws? The advent of worldwide networks such as the internet made
software security (or the lack of software security) became a problem of
international proportions. There are no mathematical/statistical risk
models available today to assess networked systems with interdependent
failures. Without this tool, decision-makers are bound to overinvest in
activities that don’t generate the desired return on investment or under
invest on mitigations, risking dreadful consequences. Experience
suggests that no party is solely responsible for the harm and risk of
software security flaws but a model of partial responsibility can only
emerge once the duties and motivations of all parties are examine and
understood.

State of the art practices in software development won’t guarantee
products free of flaws. The infinite principles of mathematics are not
properly implemented in modern computer hardware without having to
truncate numbers and calculations. Many of the most common operating
systems, network protocols and programming languages used today were
first conceived without the basic principles of security in mind.
Compromises are made to maintain compatibility of newer versions of
these systems with previous versions. Evolving software inherits all
flaws and risks that are present in this layered and interdependent
solution. Lastly, there are no formal ways to prove software correctness
using neither mathematics nor definitive authority to assert the absence
of vulnerabilities. The slightest coding error can lead to a fatal flaw.
Without a doubt, vulnerabilities in software applications will continue
to be part of our daily lives for years to come.

Decisions made by adopters such as whether to install a patch, upgrade a
system or employed insecure configurations create externalities that
have implications on the security of other systems. Proper cyber hygiene
and education are vital to stop the proliferation of computer worms,
viruses and botnets. Furthermore, end users, corporations and large
governments directly influence software vendors’ decisions to invest on
security by voting with their money every time software is purchased or
pirated.

Security researchers largely influence the overall state of software
security depending on the approach taken to disclose findings. While
many believe full disclosure practices helped the software industry to
advance security in the past, several of the most devastating computer
worms were created by borrowing from information detailed by
researcher’s full disclosure. Both incentives and penalties were
created for security researchers: a number of stories of vendors suing
security researchers are available in the press. Some countries enacted
laws banning the use and development of “hacking tools”. At the same
time, companies such as iDefense promoted the creation of a market for
security vulnerabilities providing rewards that are larger than a year’s
worth of salary for a software practitioner in countries such as China
and India.

Effective policy and standards can serve as leverage to fix the problem
either by providing incentives or penalties. Attempts such PCI created a
perverse incentive that diverted decision makers’ goals to compliance
instead of security. Stiff mandates and ineffective laws have been
observed internationally. Given the fast pace of the industry, laws to
combat software vulnerabilities may become obsolete before they are
enacted. Alternatively, the government can use its own buying power to
encourage adoption of good security standards. One example of this is
the Federal Desktop Core Configuration (FDCC).

***Bio:*** Cassio Goldschmidt is senior manager of the product security
team under the Office of the CTO at Symantec Corporation. In this role
he leads efforts across the company to ensure secure development of
software products. His responsibilities include managing Symantec’s
internal secure software development process, training, threat modeling,
penetration testing and vulnerability manegement. Cassio’s background
includes over 14 years of technical and managerial experience in the
software industry. During the eight years he has been with Symantec, he
has helped to architect, design and develop several top selling product
releases, conducted numerous security classes, and coordinated various
penetration tests. Cassio is also known for leading the OWASP chapter in
Los Angeles and is a frequent speaker at security conferences worldwide.

Cassio represents Symantec on the SAFECode technical committee and
(ISC)2 in the development of the CSSLP certification. He holds a
bachelor degree in computer science from Pontificia Universidade
Catolica do Rio Grande Do Sul, a masters degree in software engineering
from Santa Clara University, and a masters of business administration
from the University of Southern California.

## Amichai Shulman

Imperva

***Title:*** **Business Logic Attacks – BATs and BLBs**

***Other authors:*** Amichai Shulman, Rob Rachwald

***Abstract:*** Cyber attacks are being committed more often by
professionals, and are increasingly driven by financial motives.
Researchers have discovered the increasing popularity of a certain class
of attacks that target business logic. Business logic attacks are a set
of legal application transactions that are used to carry out a malicious
operation that is not part of normal business practices. For example,
brute forcing coupon codes in an ecommerce application to receive
multiple discounts. This presentation will provide a quick introduction
to business logic attacks, their unique characteristics and the
motivation behind their uptick. The session will suggest a
classification method for these attacks from which attendees can draw a
set of required mitigation capabilities. We will discuss capabilities
required for detecting automated interaction with the application,
different types of repetitions, flow tampering and even compromised
credentials. We will also contemplate on the usage of mitigation
techniques such as Captcha, introducing delays and more. Concluding this
session we will bring up the claim that all these capabilities can be
introduced in the form of a "virtual patch" using a web application
firewall, rather than being exclusively fixed in application code.

***Bio:*** Amichai Shulman is Co-Founder and CTO of Imperva, where he
heads the Application Defense Center (ADC), Imperva's internationally
recognized research organization focused on security and compliance. Mr.
Shulman regularly lectures at trade conferences and delivers monthly
eSeminars. The press draws on Mr. Shulman's expertise to comment on
breaking news, including security breaches, mitigation techniques, and
related technologies. Under his direction, the ADC has been credited
with the discovery of serious vulnerabilities in commercial Web
application and database products, including Oracle, IBM, and Microsoft.
Prior to Imperva, Mr. Shulman was founder and CTO of Edvice Security
Services Ltd., a consulting group that provided application and database
security services to major financial institutions, including Web and
database penetration testing and security strategy, design and
implementation. Mr. Shulman served in the Israel Defense Forces, where
he led a team that identified new computer attack and defense
techniques. He has B.Sc and Masters Degrees in Computer Science from the
Technion, Israel Institute of Technology.

## Gabriel Quadros

Conviso IT Security

***Title:*** **Taint Analysis of JavaScript Code to Detect Web
Application Vulnerabilities**

***Abstract:*** Modern Web applications make increasing use of
client-side code, with JavaScript being the most present in most of
them. Several vulnerabilities are introduced through the careless use of
this language. The publicly available analysis tools are usually based
on pattern matching to find potential vulnerabilities, but this is not
an efficient approach to analyze large amounts of code. Therefore, there
is a need to develop tools to perform more advanced analysis like Taint
Analysis and Symbolic Execution. This article discusses various
approaches to dynamic analysis of JavaScript code and presents the
JsInstrumentator tool, which is being developed by Conviso Security
Labs.

***Bio:*** Gabriel Quadros começou a estudar segurança da informação em
2003, com interesse principal em engenharia reversa, pesquisa de
vulnerabilidades e desenvolvimento de exploits.

Atualmente cursa o último ano do Bacharelado em Ciência da Computação na
Universidade Estadual do Sudoeste da Bahia - UESB.

Em abril de 2010, começou suas atividades como consultor de segurança na
Conviso IT Security.

## Tony Rodrigues

Provider IT Business Solutions

***Title:*** **Tony’s Top 10 Application Artifacts: A Computer Forensics
Approach to OWASP Top 10**

***Abstract:*** Application Computer Forensics has many peculiarities
comparing to others Computer Forensics disciplines. It requires not only
distinctive techniques but also deep knowledge of specific artifacts.
This presentation is about the top ten artifacts related to application
computer forensics/digital investigations and their relation to OWASP
Top 10 Risks.

***Bio:*** Tony Rodrigues é um profissional certificado CISSP, CFCP e
Security+ com mais de 20 anos de experiência em TI e 8 anos em Gestão de
Segurança de Informações. Já liderou várias investigações, perícias e
pesquisas sobre Computação Forense. Tony é consultor em Segurança de
Informações e palestrou em importantes conferencias internacionais
(CNASI, H2HC,YSTS). É autor/criador do blog forcomp.blogspot.com, sobre
Resposta a Incidentes e Forense Computacional e também colabora com
artigos no blog de Computer Forensics da SANS.

## Henrich Christopher Pöhls

University of Passau - ISL

***Title:*** **The State of XML Digital Signatures --- How to Avoid
Technical Pitfalls and Harvest the Power of Newer Signature Schemes**

***Abstract:*** XML Digital Signatures are a complex tool, applied right
they help to ensure legal compliance, but there are many pitfalls. This
talk will provide some basic steps that users and implementers should
follow to avoid the pitfalls, among them are:

  - Solid Understanding of the XML Signature processing and verification
    steps
  - Use of simplistic and coherent references when creating XML Digital
    Signature
  - Know how to Test what was signed before acting upon it (BitFlip
    Test)

The Talk will also provide an overview of new applications for recent
and more specialized digital signature schemes, like sanitizable
signature schemes (academic research since roughly 2000) that allow to
deal with the need to modify already signed content. And it will
highlight the security relevant changes that are planned for the
upcoming version of XML Signature Syntax and Processing 2.0.

***Bio:*** Henrich C. Pöhls has presented his scientific work on digital
signatures at several academic conferences (i.e. ICICS, GI, Invited
Talks) or to technical audiences (i.e. DFN CERT, OWASP). Instructor of a
practical IT-security university class for Computer Science and
IT-Security Master students for the last 7 years. He has established
this course first at the University of Hamburg in 2004 and than at the
University of Passau in 2008. The course, now titled "Security
Infrastructures", is centered around security infrastructures focussing
on secure & authenticated access through the use of digital signatures.

It involves setting-up a certificate authority, using digital signatures
and X509 certificates mostly for authentication in open-source software
like client and server authentication with apache, secure DNS zone
transfers, or client and server authentication in openvpn, as well as in
MS Windows environments.It also covers certificate revocation using CRLs
and OCSP. Henrich C. Pöhls draws from a rich repository of his own
experience from his academic research in the field and the 7 years of
using the available tools for creating, applying and managing digital
signatures and X509 certificates in different versions and seeing his
students struggle with the pitfalls trying to get it to work.

## Rodrigo Montoro

Trustwave Spiderlabs

***Title:*** **Web Application First Aid - Virtual Patching with
ModSecurity**

***Abstract:*** This presentation will show how to mitigate security
problems that you may found after your application goes to the real
world . Weʼll talk about how to analyze a security report, understand
how modsecurity works and how based on the report to create a virtual
patching using modsecurity rules.

***Bio:*** Rodrigo “Sp0oKeR” Montoro possui grande experiência em
ambientes opensource e mercado de segurança especialmente na parte de
IPS/IDS , malwares e protocolos. Atualmente trabalha no time de
pesquisas do SpiderLabs (Trustwave) onde faz parte do core team de
assinaturas do modsecurity além de analise de malwares, assinaturas de
IDS e pesquisas na area de arquivos maliciosos especialmente pdfʼs.

## Brian Contos

McAfee

***Title:*** **Exploring Three Modern Attack Vectors: Insiders,
Industrialized and APTs**

***Abstract:*** Attacks are coming from all angles. In some cases they
are very rudimentary; in others they are highly complex. Organizations
must be able to protect themselves regardless, and do so in a way this
is in parity with business operations, maintains employee and partner
agility, and is manageable without the complexity of the solution being
worse than the attack itself.

Failure to address these three different attack types can result in
everything from diminished brand loyalty, regulatory penalties, and lost
revenue, to stolen intellectual property, economic competitive
disadvantage, and military competitive disadvantage. Based on research
from McAfee Labs and customer interactions across the globe in the
public and private sector, there is much information that can be shared
about these attackers and their strategies.

Attendees will leave the presentation more knowledgeable about insider
threats, industrialized hacking, and APTs. They will have a strong grasp
of the attacker motives and understand their attack vectors. The
audience will also be exposed to several non-vender, non-product
specific countermeasures that they can leverage within their own
organizations.

***Bio:*** Mr. Contos has over 15 years of security engineering and
management expertise. He has worked throughout North and South America,
Europe, the Middle East, and Asia. At McAfee he advises government
organizations and G2000s on security strategy. He has written two books
including Enemy at the Water Cooler – Real Life Stories of Insider
Threats, and Physical and Logical Security Convergence which he
co-authored with former NSA Deputy Director William Crowell. He has
delivered speeches at industry events like RSA, Black Hat, Interop,
OWASP, CSI, ISACA, ISSA, InfraGard and eCrime. He is often quoted by
business and industry press, and has written articles for Forbes, NY
Times, London Times, Computerworld, and many others. He was formerly the
Chief Security Strategist for Imperva, the Chief Security Officer for
ArcSight, and has held management and engineering positions at Riptech,
Bell Labs, Tandem Computers, and DISA.

## Christophe De La Fuente

***Title:*** **Testing and Fuzzing FLEX: More fun with RIA**

***Additional author:*** **Matt Tesauro**

***Abstract:*** FLEX is a popular choice for the brave new world of web
2.0 applications. While the game may have appeared to change, rich
Internet applications (RIA) still allow for the same vulnerabilities and
design mistakes to be made. This presentation will cover methods for
testing Adobe FLEX applications including the new version 4 and will
look at such issues as cross-­-site flashing, remote calls and fuzzing.
Additionally, there will be coverage of tools to test FLEX and other
Flash applications including their addition to the OWASP WTE (Web
Testing Environment). Finally, some design issues which may hamper FLEX
development will be discussed in a brief case study.

***Bio:*** Christophe is a Security Consultant within the Application
Security practice at Trustwave's SpiderLabs. SpiderLabs is the advanced
security team responsible for Penetration Testing, Application Security,
and Incident Response for Trustwave's clients.

Christophe has extensive experience in penetration tests on web
application and network infrastructure. He has a background testing a
large range of applications, from traditional client/server applications
to web applications and web services. In addition to his information
security experience, Christophe has experience developing software and
web applications. Christophe also has an interest in reverse code
engineering for malware analysis and vulnerability research. He as
taught post-­-graduate level university course in the field of web
application security testing.

## Mauro Risonho de Paula Assumpção

***Title:*** **The Tao of Hacking - Detecting Vulnerabilities in Web
based Network Devices**

***Abstract:*** This talks relates to the design flaws and
vulnerabilities in various network peripheral devices used for security
which are having web interfaces. We will be talking about some of the
vulnerabilities that we have discovered while pen testing these devices.
Further , this talk also lays emphasis on collecting information about
internal networks from the network devices like load balancers,
firewalls, disk stations, proxies, surveillance cameras etc. The aim is
to gather maximum infomation from these devices and using that
information to test the security of these devices and detecting
vulnerabilities in them. This talk is pure conceptual and technical talk
designed in an easy way to share information among masses.

***Bio:*** Mr. Mauro Assumpção Cheshire Paula aka firebits is a security
researcher and lecturer at security conferences. He is working as
director of NSEC Security Systems, an organization that provides
consulting services for security and penetration testing. He has
performed numerous safety tests and development projects for
organizations such as Intel, Google, Microsiga, Avon, CMS Energy,
Unilever, Rhodia, Tostines, Degussa, Niplan and others. He is founder
and "Backtrack Brazil" and moderator and translator Backtrack USA.

Aditya K Sood is a Security Researcher, consultant and PhD candidate in
Computer Science Department at Michigan State University.He has worked
in the security domain for Armorize, COSEINC and KPMG. He is a founder
of SecNiche Security, an independent security research arena. He has
been an active speaker at conferences like RSA (US 2010), TRISC,
EuSecwest, XCON, Troopers, OWASP AppSec, FOSS, CERT-IN etc. He has
writtencontent for HITB Ezine, Hakin9, Usenix Login, Elsevier Journals,
De­bugged\! MZ/PE.He has released number of advisories to forefront
companies.Apart from his normal routine work he loves to do lot of web
based research and designing cutting edge attack vector.

#### Schedule

## Conference Program - Day 1 - November 18th 2010

<center>

<table>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>width="14%" height="17" align="right"</p></td>
<td><p>08:30 - 09:00</p></td>
<td><p>bgcolor="#8595c2" align="CENTER"</p></td>
<td><p><strong>Reception Desk Open</strong></p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>width="14%" height="17" align="right"</p></td>
<td><p>09:00 - 09:40</p></td>
<td><p>bgcolor="#b9c2dc" align="CENTER"</p></td>
<td><p><strong>Opening Ceremony</strong></p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>width="14%" height="49" align="right"</p></td>
<td><p>09:40 - 10:30</p></td>
<td><p>bgcolor="#eeeeee" align="CENTER"</p></td>
<td><p><strong>Dinis Cruz</strong><br />
About OWASP</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>width="14%" height="17" align="right"</p></td>
<td><p>10:30 - 10:50</p></td>
<td><p>bgcolor="#d98b66" align="CENTER"</p></td>
<td><p><strong>Break</strong></p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>width="14%" height="49" align="right"</p></td>
<td><p>10:50 - 11:50</p></td>
<td><p>bgcolor="#b9c2dc" align="CENTER"</p></td>
<td><p><strong>Robert 'RSnake' Hansen</strong><br />
The Humble Cookie</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>width="14%" height="49" align="right"</p></td>
<td><p>11:50 - 12:40</p></td>
<td><p>bgcolor="#eeeeee" align="CENTER"</p></td>
<td><p><strong>Amichai Shulman<br />
</strong> Business Logic Attacks – BATs and BLBs</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>width="14%" height="17" align="right"</p></td>
<td><p>12:40 - 14:30</p></td>
<td><p>bgcolor="#d98b66" align="CENTER"</p></td>
<td><p><strong>Lunch Break</strong></p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>width="14%" height="47" align="right"</p></td>
<td><p>14:30 - 15:20</p></td>
<td><p>bgcolor="#b9c2dc" align="CENTER"</p></td>
<td><p><strong>Chris Hofmann</strong><br />
Making the Next Generation of Browsers More Secure.</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>width="14%" height="32" align="right"</p></td>
<td><p>15:20 - 16:10</p></td>
<td><p>bgcolor="#eeeeee" align="CENTER"</p></td>
<td><p><strong>Mano Paul</strong><br />
Wild Wild Wild Security Planet</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>width="14%" height="17" align="right"</p></td>
<td><p>16:10 - 16:30</p></td>
<td><p>bgcolor="#d98b66" align="CENTER"</p></td>
<td><p><strong>Break</strong></p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>width="14%" height="47" align="right"</p></td>
<td><p>16:30 - 17:20</p></td>
<td><p>bgcolor="#b9c2dc" align="CENTER"</p></td>
<td><p><strong>Tony Rodrigues</strong><br />
Tony’s Top 10 Application Artifacts: A Computer Forensics Approach to OWASP Top 10</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>width="14%" height="32" align="right"</p></td>
<td><p>17:20 - 18:10</p></td>
<td><p>bgcolor="#eeeeee" align="CENTER"</p></td>
<td><p><strong>Cassio Goldschmidt</strong><br />
Responsibility for the Harm and Risk of Software Security Flaws</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>width="14%" height="47" align="right"</p></td>
<td><p>18:10 - 19:00</p></td>
<td><p>bgcolor="#b9c2dc" align="CENTER"</p></td>
<td><p><strong>Gabriel Quadros</strong><br />
Taint Analysis of JavaScript Code to Detect Web Application Vulnerabilities</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>width="14%" height="17" align="right"</p></td>
<td><p>19:00</p></td>
<td><p>bgcolor="#cccccc" align="CENTER"</p></td>
<td><p><strong>End of the First Day</strong></p></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

</center>



## Conference Program - Day 2 - November 19th 2010

<center>

<table>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>width="14%" height="17" align="right"</p></td>
<td><p>08:30 - 09:00</p></td>
<td><p>bgcolor="#8595c2" align="CENTER"</p></td>
<td><p><strong>Reception Desk Open</strong></p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>width="14%" height="32" align="right"</p></td>
<td><p>09:00 - 10:00</p></td>
<td><p>bgcolor="#b9c2dc" align="CENTER"</p></td>
<td><p><strong>Jeremiah Grossman</strong><br />
Facilitating Application Security Maturity</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>width="14%" height="47" align="right"</p></td>
<td><p>10:00 - 10:50</p></td>
<td><p>bgcolor="#eeeeee" align="CENTER"</p></td>
<td><p><strong>Henrich Christopher Pöhls</strong><br />
The State of XML Digital Signatures --- How to Avoid Technical Pitfalls and Harvest the Power of Newer Signature Schemes</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>width="14%" height="17" align="right"</p></td>
<td><p>10:50 - 11:10</p></td>
<td><p>bgcolor="#d98b66" align="CENTER"</p></td>
<td><p><strong>Break</strong></p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>width="14%" height="47" align="right"</p></td>
<td><p>11:10 - 12:00</p></td>
<td><p>bgcolor="#eeeeee" align="CENTER"</p></td>
<td><p><strong>Rodrigo Montoro</strong><br />
Web Application First Aid - Virtual Patching with ModSecurity</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>width="14%" height="32" align="right"</p></td>
<td><p>12:00 - 12:30</p></td>
<td><p>bgcolor="#b9c2dc" align="CENTER"</p></td>
<td><p><strong>Cel. Antonio Carlos Menna Barreto Monclaro</strong><br />
Presentation of Renasic - National Network for Information Security and Cryptography</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>width="14%" height="17" align="right"</p></td>
<td><p>12:30 - 14:30</p></td>
<td><p>bgcolor="#d98b66" align="CENTER"</p></td>
<td><p><strong>Lunch Break</strong></p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>width="14%" height="32" align="right"</p></td>
<td><p>14:30 - 15:20</p></td>
<td><p>bgcolor="#eeeeee" align="CENTER"</p></td>
<td><p><strong>Samy Kamkar</strong><br />
How I met your girlfriend</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>width="14%" height="32" align="right"</p></td>
<td><p>15:20 - 16:10</p></td>
<td><p>bgcolor="#b9c2dc" align="CENTER"</p></td>
<td><p><strong>Christophe De La Fuente</strong><br />
Testing and Fuzzing FLEX: More fun with RIA</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>width="14%" height="32" align="right"</p></td>
<td><p>16:10 - 17:00</p></td>
<td><p>bgcolor="#eeeeee" align="CENTER"</p></td>
<td><p><strong>Bian Contos</strong><br />
Exploring Three Modern Attack Vectors: Insiders, Industrialized and APTs</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>width="14%" height="17" align="right"</p></td>
<td><p>17:00 - 17:20</p></td>
<td><p>bgcolor="#d98b66" align="CENTER"</p></td>
<td><p><strong>Break</strong></p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>width="14%" height="32" align="right"</p></td>
<td><p>17:20 - 18:10</p></td>
<td><p>bgcolor="#b9c2dc" align="CENTER"</p></td>
<td><p><strong>Mauro Risonho de Paula Assumpção</strong><br />
The Tao of Hacking - Detecting Vulnerabilities in Web based Network Devices</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>width="14%" height="32" align="right"</p></td>
<td><p>18:10 - 18:50</p></td>
<td><p>bgcolor="#eeeeee" align="CENTER"</p></td>
<td><p><strong>Dinis Cruz</strong><br />
OWASP O2 Project</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>width="14%" height="17" align="right"</p></td>
<td><p>18:50 - 19:00</p></td>
<td><p>bgcolor="#cccccc" align="CENTER"</p></td>
<td><p><strong>Closing Ceremony</strong></p></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

</center>



#### Trainings

![Image:Aspect logo.png](Aspect_logo.png "Image:Aspect logo.png")

### **Secure Coding for J2EE Applications**

![Jasonli_appsecBR2010.jpg](Jasonli_appsecBR2010.jpg
"Jasonli_appsecBR2010.jpg") **Date and time: November 16th and 17th**
**Instructor: Jason Li**
**Summary**
Training developers on secure coding practices offers one of the highest
returns on investment of any security investment by eliminating
vulnerabilities at the source. Aspect’s Java EE Secure Coding Training
raises developer awareness of application security issues and provides
examples of ‘what to do’ and ‘what not to do.' The class is lead by an
experienced developer and is delivered in a very interactive manner.
This class includes hands-on exercises where the students get to perform
security analysis and testing on a live Java EE web application. This
specially designed environment includes deliberate flaws the students
have to find, diagnose, and fix. The class also uses Java EE coding
exercises to provide students with realistic hands-on secure coding
experience. Students gain hands-on experience using freely available web
application security test tools to find and diagnose flaws and learn to
avoid them in their own code.
**Audience**
The intended audience for this course is intended for Java EE software
developers and Java EE software testers who know how to program.
**Learning Objectives**
At the highest level, the objective for this course is to ensure that
developers are capable of designing, building, and testing secure Java
EE applications and understand why this is important.
**Topics**

  - **HTTP Fundamentals**
    \*Understand and be able to employ the security features involved
    with using HTTP (e.g., headers, cookies, SSL)
  - **Design Principles and Patterns**
    \*Understand and be able to apply application security design
    principles.
  - **Threats**
    \*Be able to identify and explain common web application security
    threats (e.g. , cross-site scripting, SQL injection, denial of
    service attacks, "Man-in-the-middle" attacks, etc.) and implement
    mitigation techniques.
  - **Authentication and Session Management**
    \*Be able to handle credentials securely while providing the full
    range of authentication support functions, including login, change
    password, forgot password, remember password, logout,
    reauthentication, and timeouts.
  - **Access Control**
    \*Be able to implement access control rules for the user interface,
    business logic, and data layers.
  - **Input Validation**
    \*Be able to recognize potential input validation issues,
    particularly injection and Cross-site Scripting (XSS) problems, and
    implement appropriate input validation mechanisms for user input and
    other sources of input.
  - **Command Injection**
    \*Understand the dangers of command injection and techniques for
    avoiding the introduction of this type vulnerability.
  - **Error Handling**
    \*Be able to implement a consistent error (exception) handling and
    logging approach for an entire web application.
  - **Cryptography**
    \*Learn when to apply cryptographic techniques and be able to choose
    algorithms and use encryption/decryption and hash functions
    securely.

**Jason’s Bio**
Jason is a remarkable trainer, mastering five different training courses
within a year’s time to our most valuable longstanding but diverse
clients. The client base included a large financial institution, several
leading shipping and logistics Management Company, and a leading
Government systems integrator.
Jason has also taught Advanced Web Application Security Testing and
Building Secure Web Applications classes at OWASP 2008 conferences in
Belgium and India.
Common remarks returned from Jason’s class evaluations include **“This
is probably one of the most important classes I‘ve been exposed to
here”** and **“One of the best instructors I’ve ever had. Really
knowledgeable of the subject. Kept class interested by sharing real life
examples that depicted good scenarios”**

## Using the OWASP ESAPI security API to provide security to web applications

**<span style="color: rgb(255, 0, 0);"> Tutorial in Portuguese.
</span>**

**Date and time: November 16th (9AM to 6PM)**
**Instructor: Tarcizio Vieira Neto**
**Summary**

The evolution of technology in the development of web applications has
contributed to a significant increase in the use of this technology to
meet the most diverse purposes. However, this technology is subject to
critical security vulnerabilities, especially when recent research show
that most vulnerabilities are present in the application itself. OWASP's
ESAPI library (Enterprise Security API) appears in this scenario as an
open source security library available for several languages such as
Java EE, PHP,. NET, Classic ASP, Python, Ruby, among others. This short
course addresses the vulnerabilities caused by common errors in
applications development and security control mechanisms provided by
ESAPI with focus on Java technology. The general principles learned in
the course can be applied in the context of other programming languages.

**Target audience**

The desired profile of the audience are people connected to the area of
web application development and security, having as a basic
pre-requisite knowledge in web technologies, communication protocols
HTTP and HTTPS, basic principles of security: encryption, hashing and
digital signature, Java programming for Web systems.

**Learning objectives**

  - Know the main security vulnerabilities commonly found in Web
    applications
  - Present the architecture of the ESAPI library and the operation of
    its modules with examples in Java.
  - Present Web Application Firewall component of ESAPI.

**Tópic**

1.  Introduction
2.  \# Myths related to security in Web applications
3.  \# OWASP Project
4.  OWASP Top 10
5.  OWASP ESAPI Library
6.  \# Validation and Encoding Module
7.  \# Authentication Module
8.  \# Access Control Module
9.  \# HTTP Utilities Module
10. \# Access references module
11. \# Cryptographic Module
12. \# Log Module
13. \# Intrusion Detection Module
14. \# integrating the AppSensor module with ESAPI
15. \# Using Filters
16. \# Configuring ESAPI
17. \# Web Application Firewall Module
18. Benefits of Using ESAPI
19. Conclusions

**Instructor**

Tarcízio Vieira Neto has a degree in Computer Science from Universidade
Federal de Goiás (UFG), in Goiania. He began his career as an intern
developer on a project of technology initiation funded by CNPq in the
company Estratégia, in Goiania. After graduating he worked for six
months at the company Fibonacci Soluções Ágeis in the same city, as a
development analyst. Then worked for two years and eight months as a
Brazilian Air Force officer as a systems analyst in the Air Force
Computer Center in Brasilia, where he gained experience with the
technologies of digital certification and collaborated in the
development of an enterprise electronic document management system.

Currently working at SERPRO since November 2009 as an Analyst in CETEC,
working on software development security, dedicated primarily in writing
guidelines that standardize techniques and tools tho support security in
Web applications development

He is attending a specialization course in Information Security from
University of Brasília (UnB) and has altogether more than five years of
programming experience in Java.

## The Art and Science of Threat Modeling Web Applications

![Mano_Paul.jpg](Mano_Paul.jpg "Mano_Paul.jpg")
**<span style="color: rgb(255, 0, 0);"> This tutorial is in English
without translation. </span>**

**Date and Time: November 17 (9AM to 6PM)**
**Instructor: Mano Paul**
**Summary**

To secure your home, you will first need to know how the thief could
possibly enter and exit and where you should store your valuables. The
same is true of your web applications. Unless you know what the
vulnerabilities and threats of your web applications are, and what
security measures you should take to protect them, ev1L h@x0rS or the
enemy within (insider) could take advantage of the vulnerabilities.

Threat Modeling is a technique that you can use to identify ATVS
(attacks, threats, vulnerabilities and safeguards) that could affect
your web applications. Threat Modeling helps in designing your
application securely from a confidentiality, integrity, availability,
authentication, authorization and auditing perspective. It is an
essential activity to be undertaken during the design stage of your SDLC
and helps mitigate and minimize overall risk.

**Target audience**

The target audience is made of technical staff and management of system
development organizations, with no required knowledge of languages or
specific programming techniques.

**Learning Objectives**

1.  Understand Threat Modeling; when to threat model and when not too
2.  Translation of threats to risks for the organization
3.  Have fun learning complex concepts with exercises and interactive
    games

**Topic**

1.  Introduction
2.  Why Threat Model?
3.  Is Threat Modeling Right for You?
4.  Challenges
5.  Precursors
6.  Data Classification and Threat Modeling
7.  Web Application Security Mechanisms
8.  Benefits of Threat Modeling
9.  Common Glossary of Terms
10. Threat Agents
11. OWASP Top 10 and common application attacks
12. Threat Modeling Process
13. Attack Trees
14. Threat and Risk Frameworks e.g., STRIDE and DREAD
15. Threat to Risk translation
16. Threat Modeling (<span style="color: rgb(255, 0, 0);">Hands-On
    Exercise</span>)

**Instructor**

Manoranjan (Mano) Paul is the Software Assurance Advisor for (ISC)2. His
information security and software assurance experience includes
designing and developing security programs from compliance-to-coding,
security in the SDLC, writing secure code, risk management, security
strategy, and security awareness training and education. He founded and
serves as the CEO & President of Express Certifications. He also founded
SecuRisk Solutions, a company that specializes in security product
development and consulting.

## Security in Service-oriented architectures

**<span style="color: rgb(255, 0, 0);"> Unfortunately this course has
been cancelled. </span>**

## Black-Box & White-Box ASP.NET Security Reviews using the OWASP O2 Platform

**<span style="color: rgb(255, 0, 0);"> Thsi tutorial will be in
Portuguese with materials in English </span>**

**Date and time: November 16th (9AM to 6 PM)**
**Instructor: Dinis Cruz**
**Summary**

This is a hands-on Training course on how to use the OWASP O2 Platform
to perform both Black-Box and White-Box security reviews on ASP.NET Web
Applications

The course is designed for security consultants/developers who are
responsible for performing Penetration Tests or Security Code Reviews.
The course will show practical examples of how to use the OWASP O2
Platform to find, exploit and document security vulnerabities.

For the course's labs, a number of test and real-world
applications/frameworks will be used. In order to give the students a
benign test enviroment which is easy to replicate, the
(vulnerable-by-design) HacmeBank ASP.NET banking application will be
used throughout the course.

**Topics**

  - What is the OWASP O2 Platform and how to use it?
  - Using O2's Unit Tests for web exploration and browsing
  - Using O2's Unit Tests for web exploitation
  - Understanding and using O2's Web Automation Tools to find and
    exploit vulnerabilities in HacmeBank (Black-Box)
  - Understanding and using O2's AST .NET Scanner to find
    vulnerabilities in HacmeBank (White-Box)
  - Connecting the source-code traces with the web exploits to create a
    unified view of the vulnerabilties
  - Create 'Vulnerability-driven Unit Tests' to be delivered to
    Developers, QA/Testers and Managers
  - Customizing and writing new APIs (for new or modified frameworks)
  - Using O2 to consume results from open source tools and 3rd party
    commercial vendors
  - Case Study: Microsoft ASP.NET MVC
  - Case Study: Microsoft Sharpoint

**Instructor**

The course is delivered by Dinis Cruz who the lead developer of the
OWASP O2 Platform and has created and delivered a number of .NET
Security training courses

## Location

Please check the *Venue* tab in this page.

#### Venue

The event will be held in Campinas, SP, Brazil at: [Fundação
CPQD](http://www.cpqd.com.br).

You can check the location at [Google
Maps](http://maps.google.com.br/maps/ms?source=embed&hl=pt-BR&geocode=&ie=UTF8&update=1&t=h&msa=0&msid=104978801628275418750.000462bf2d1a49a7571af&ll=-22.83125,-47.044315&spn=0.03718,0.04034&z=14)

*How to get there*

TBD

#### Registration

## Online Registration

Registration form is available at
<https://creator.zoho.com/lucas.ferreira/appsec/>

## Conference Fees

**Access to conference:**

  - Before Sep 16th: 400.00 BRL
  - Before Oct 16th: 500.00 BRL
  - Before Nov 12th: 550.00 BRL
  - On site: 600.00 BRL

On site registration subject to the availability of seats.

**Trainings**

  - One day: 450.00 BRL
  - Two days: 900.00 BRL

**Discounts**

  - OWASP Member: 100.00 BRL (Note: This discount is greater than the
    OWASP USD 50.00 annual fee. Check
    [here](http://www.google.com.br/#q=50+usd+in+brl&fp=1)
  - Student: 100.00 BRL (Note: student ID required).
  - Special discounts available for groups registrations. Please send
    inquiries to organizacao2010@appsecbrasil.org

#### Committees

## Conference Committee

OWASP Global Conferences Committee Chair: Mark Bristow

OWASP [Brazilian](Brazilian "wikilink") Chapter Leader: Wagner Elias

AppSec Brasil 2010 Organization Team (organizacao2010 at
appsecbrasil.org):

  - Conference General Chair: Lucas C. Ferreira
  - Tutorials Chair: Eduardo Camargo Neves
  - Tracks Chair: Luiz Otávio Duarte
  - Local Chair: Alexandre Melo Braga

### Team Members

  - Alexandre Melo Braga
  - Eduardo Camargo Neves
  - Lucas C. Ferreira
  - Luiz Otávio Duarte
  - Wagner Elias
  - Eduardo Alves Nonato da Silva
  - Leonardo Buonsanti
  - Dinis Cruz
  - Paulo Coimbra

## Programme Committee:

  - Alexandre Braga
  - Carlos Serrao
  - Eduardo alves
  - Fernando Cima
  - Leonardo Buonsanti
  - Lucas Ferreira
  - Luiz Duarte
  - Nelson Uto
  - Rodrigo Rubira
  - Wagner Elias




#### Accommodations

## Suggested Hotels

**COMFORT SUITES**

![Comfort.jpg](Comfort.jpg "Comfort.jpg")

**Special prices for OWASP AppSec Brazil 2010\!**

  - Please note that prices are in Brazilian currency. Feel free to
    convert to your country's currency with the most up-to-date rates.

| Room Type | Single | Double    |
| --------- | ------ | --------- |
| Superior  |        | R$ 173,00 |
| Deluxe    |        | R$ 215,00 |

Plus 5% taxes

  - [Hotel
    site.](http://www.atlanticahotels.com.br/atlantica/hoteis/estrutura.asp?Numfuncionalidade=292&NumHotel=24&Cidade=Campinas&titulo=Apresentação)
  - Located 5 minutes from the event venue.
  - Breakfast.
  - Free parking.
  - Payment: Cash or credit card.
  - 24 hour restaurant.
  - Business center, fitness center and pool.
  - Free shuttle to three nearby malls.

**To make your bookings with special prices, please call (5519) 2137
9000 and tell about the OWASP Event or [click
here](mailto:reservas.csc@atlanticahoteis.com.br?Subject=Solicitação%20de%20reserva%20COMFORT%20SUITES%20–%20Evento%20OWASP),
and add the following text to the message body:**

    I would like to book a room for the following days:
    (   ) 15/11  (   )16/11  (   )17/11  (   )18/11  (   )19/11
    (   ) single             (   ) double
    (   ) superior           (   ) deluxe
    Waiting for confirmation and payment instructions.
    Name:
    Passport number:

**SLEEP IN**

![sleepin.jpg](sleepin.jpg "sleepin.jpg")

**Special prices for OWASP AppSec Brazil 2010\!**

  - Please note that prices are in Brazilian currency. Feel free to
    convert to your country's currency with the most up-to-date rates.

| Room type | Single | Double    |
| --------- | ------ | --------- |
| Superior  |        | R$ 162,00 |
| Deluxe    |        | R$ 184,00 |

Plus 5% taxes

  - [Hotel
    site.](http://www.atlanticahotels.com.br/atlantica/hoteis/estrutura.asp?Numfuncionalidade=292&NumHotel=39&Cidade=Campinas&titulo=Apresentação)
  - Located 10 minutes from the event venue.
  - Free parking.
  - Payment: Cash or credit card.
  - Dinner served at the Coffee Shop, Monday to Thursday from 7pm to
    10pm.
  - Business center, fitness center and pool.
  - Free shuttle to three nearby malls.

**To make your bookings with special prices, please call (5519) 2137
2200 and tell about the OWASP Event or [click
here](mailto:reservas.sig@atlanticahotels.com.br?Subject=Solicitação%20de%20reserva%20SLEEP%20IN%20–%20Evento%20OWASP)
and add the following text to the message body:**

    I would like to book a room for the following days:
    (   ) 15/11  (   )16/11  (   )17/11  (   )18/11  (   )19/11
    (   ) single             (   ) double
    (   ) superior           (   ) deluxe
    Waiting for confirmation and payment instructions.
    Name:
    Passport number:

#### Twitter

<twitter>124443335</twitter>

#### Links

Blog: <http://blog.appsecbrasil.org>

Twitter: <http://twitter.com/owaspappsecbr>

Banner: <http://www.owasp.org/images/3/31/AppSec_Brasil_2010_Banner.gif>

Powerpoint template:
[Media:OWASP_Presentation_Template_BrazilAppSec2010.ppt](Media:OWASP_Presentation_Template_BrazilAppSec2010.ppt "wikilink")

Pictures:
<http://picasaweb.google.com/lucas.ferreira/AppSecBrasil2010?feat=directlink>


<headertabs />

[Category:OWASP_AppSec_Conference](Category:OWASP_AppSec_Conference "wikilink")