## Dial In Info

### Notice of Recording

  - Notice to all attendees - board meetings are recorded and publicly
    available as of March, 2013
  - Joining the call acknowledges your awareness of recording and
    consent to be recorded and public dissemination of the recording.
  - [Meeting
    Recording](https://www.dropbox.com/s/1hgbf3kyht5aeo2/OWASP%20Board%20Meeting%20April%2020%2C%202016.mp4?dl=0)

### Time

  - [April 20, 2016](April_20,_2016 "wikilink"), 16:00-17:00 PDT -
    [TimeZone
    Converter](http://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/meetingdetails.html?year=2016&month=04&day=20&hour=23&min=0&sec=0&p1=224&p2=24&p3=263&p4=78&p5=37&p6=102&p7=152)

### Location

**Teleconference Information:**

<https://www3.gotomeeting.com/join/861328838>

[International Toll Free Calling
Information](International_Toll_Free_Calling_Information "wikilink")

### Attendance Tracker

**[Board Meeting Attendance
Tracker](https://docs.google.com/a/owasp.org/spreadsheet/ccc?key=0ApZ9zE0hx0LNdG5uRzNYZE8ycDFabnBWNkU4SFpwREE)**

### Meeting Minutes

April 20, 2016 Meeting Minutes:
<https://docs.google.com/document/d/1iCSz7o7twwh-Rqhab7V8bI8XveZXbn8goe6qv8ita2U>
March 16, 2016 Meeting Minutes:
<https://docs.google.com/document/d/1xGrNduAoAf2cZ9Xgup431SbZw-qjL5JZqukHIfWTyBI>

# Reading Material

***It is a requirement as a board member to fully read all material
prior to the start of the meeting***

  - [Motion for succession
    planning](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1LpNCbrEq2UbSZkR_AmM_OVTi1j9SNVX4XjxYzNb0BXI/pub)
    AJV
  - [Motion for fixing lack of women in OWASP conference
    keynotes](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1SVxw5Vbrna2z2tTwFMayALvgzuI9TLNx8Zqpd4bnJCw/pub)
    AJV

# Meeting Agenda

## Call to Order /OWASP Mission

  - Administrative: List of attendees and Agenda bashing (only if
    last-minute changes to the agenda are needed) (5 min)

## Reports

### Chair's Report - Matt Konda

  - Support Operations
      - Approval flows (Payroll, large payments)
      - Paperwork for termination and leave
      - Weekly staff call
      - 2-3 check ins with operations director per week.
      - Various firefighting around projects, etc.
  - Hiring
      - Talked to Insperity recruiting for Community Manager and Tech
        Project Manager
      - Talked with Virtual about Interim ED options.
      - Working on short term fill for community manager time
  - Developer outreach
  - Web site assessment support

### Vice Chair's Report - Josh Sokol

  - Update on Bug Bounty Program

### Treasurer Report - Andrew van der Stock

  - Financial Package available here:

<https://drive.google.com/a/owasp.org/folderview?id=0B4xgbqJzimL4RGtwd2M1cDJxcEU&usp=sharing>

I've gone through the February 2016 financial package, which Tom Pappas
will step us through. I've asked for clarification on expenses, as
there's a lot of untracked expenses. In fact, it seems there's a pattern
of behavior from some chapters, which I will do more research over as
time goes on. Tom has agreed to add a new page to the P\&L financial
package to help track expenses directly from Quickbooks. This is shown
in the second file. I think this is super helpful in analysing all the
outgoings instead of a single line in previous packages.

tl;dr - we're doing well. We are slightly ahead of budget, we have
extended our run rate out to 3.45 months, which is 0.7 months better
than last month. Tom has noted that our chapter balances continue to
grow. At some point we will need to work on what constitutes holding
reasonable rainy day funds to achieve the Chapters mission, against both
the actual definition of not-for-profit US tax status, as well as the
opportunity cost of simply holding that much cash without investing it
or doing something else with it.

Our aged receivables continues to grow. I asked Alison to look into it,
as we have nearly $90k owing to us right now, and I think spending a few
days on the phone to work out if we need more sponsors (i.e. those bills
will not be paid), or actually get paid. I haven't seen the results of
this yet, so I'll hand over to Alison to see where we are on the aged
receivables front. I know ringing people up and asking for money is not
a pleasant task, but it's got to be done. If we as a Board know some of
these folks, let's leverage our connections to see if we can make it
better.

#### Approvals

Due to ED medical leave of absence, I and Matt K have stepped in. I'm
doing most of the approvals, and it seems to be working okay for now.
Matt Konda is performing double verification for expenses over $10k,
which included:

`- $13,875 for AppSec CA 2017 venue deposit. This is the normal time of year for this expense, and AppSec CA always makes a profit, so approved`
`- $10,500 for JavaOne conference sponsorship. Matt K was a second approver for this expense. `
`- $7,500 for Sooryen Consulting for our needs analysis. This falls under the $10k approval limit, but I wanted to call this out as overall, this is half of the overall fee. `
`- $6,532.50 for Fonteva, which apparently is our CRM that sits atop SalesForce. There are significant fees for Fonteva over a 12 month period, so I will hope that all CRMs are wrapped together sooner or later`
`- $6,670 for Virtual management's monthly fee`

There are a heap of day to day chapter expenses. One was denied before
it got to approval status, probably due to a lack of chapter balance.

#### Payroll

Payroll approval is in the process of adding Matt Konda and myself as
approvers. I have provided my details to be an approver, so OWASP will
be able to make payroll this month.

PTO leave entitlements were sent through to Insperity to ensure that two
staff on various forms of leave are correctly accounted for.

### Secretary Report - Jim Manico

  - Dr. Wetter expressed a strong concern about OWASP branding use
    inside of Germany by a specific company. Suggest moving this
    complaint to the compliance group.

### Updated from Members at Large - Tom Brennan, Michael Coates, and Tobias Gondrom

## Reports

  - Executive Director/Operations Update - \[link:addme Rollup Report
    P.Ritchie\]
      - Financial Update - [Monthly & YTD
        Financials](https://drive.google.com/a/owasp.org/file/d/0BxI4iTO_Qojvbjg3aVpXOGtfX3c/view?usp=sharing)
      - Director Update - Kate Hartmann - [Rollup report Kate Hartmann
        Update](https://docs.google.com/a/owasp.org/document/d/1k31sC42W3FYB-9efQhBM_SFIx17d_4JhLXK-nuzAG0I/edit?usp=sharing)
      - Project Coordinator Update
        -\[<https://docs.google.com/a/owasp.org/presentation/d/1EFn5vmZo50nIGlxJ0BVoxizSHL_MFbwMPYgirHGZOW8/edit?usp=sharing>|
        Claudia Aviles Casanovas Update\]
      - Membership Update - [Kelly Santalucia
        Update](https://www.owasp.org/index.php/March_2016_Membership_Report)
      - \[<https://docs.google.com/a/owasp.org/document/d/1VEVTufJ98QMCeGf_LMUjzaKuE4z-LCZChOS_Lj7wdjE/edit?usp=sharing>|
        Conference Manager Report\] - Laura Grau
      - IT Update - \[link:addme Matt Tesauro Report\]

### Community Initiative Reports

## Old Business

All active board proposals are listed
[here](https://drive.google.com/folderview?id=0BxSfMVkfLvslVXdvUFV3NkxucWc&usp=sharing)

  - add items

## New Business

All active board proposals are listed
[here](https://drive.google.com/folderview?id=0BxSfMVkfLvslVXdvUFV3NkxucWc&usp=sharing)

  - Andrew van der Stock - Succession planning. Discussion & Vote \[10
    minutes\]
      - vote needed - please see reading material above for the motion

<!-- end list -->

  - Tom Brennan - Approval of Corporate Support Logos
      - March 22nd Thread about logo abuse - On Background, April 15th
        [Survey](http://goo.gl/forms/auUec6dP71) Results
        [Survey](https://www.owasp.org/images/d/d4/Final-Survey.jpg)
      - discussion and vote needed

<!-- end list -->

  - Josh Sokol - OWASP Staff Needs Technical Assistance
      - <http://lists.owasp.org/pipermail/owasp-board/2016-April/017105.html>

<!-- end list -->

  - Josh Sokol - Risk Management
      - <http://lists.owasp.org/pipermail/owasp-board/2016-April/017114.html>

<!-- end list -->

  - Tom Brennan - Status on OWASP FTE (Executive Session HR)
      - April 15th announcement of (2) roles - \*New\* Senior Technical
        Coordinator and backfill for Global Community Manager
        [details](https://www.owasp.org/index.php/OWASP_Jobs)

## Action Items

  - MOTION - Fix lack of women keynotes in OWASP conferences

` `[`MOTIONS`](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1SVxw5Vbrna2z2tTwFMayALvgzuI9TLNx8Zqpd4bnJCw/pub)

  - IT Motions (Josh Sokol, seconded by Jim Manico)
      - Motion 1: Give Matt Tesauro an OWASP Foundation credit card. -
        He is a former Board member and a trusted staff member of the
        Foundation. I see no reason why, if that makes his job easier,
        it shouldn't be. Let's rectify that.
      - Motion 2: Approve funding for up to $200/month (good for 50
        GB/month) of PaperTrail services. - We all know how important
        logging is and Matt stated it would make his job easier. This
        seems like a no brainer.
      - Motion 3: Approve funding for $20k worth of part-time/contractor
        System Administrator resources to aide in managing and securing
        OWASP's infrastructure.
  - MOTION - hire Dawn Aitken for up to 20 hours per week as acting
    Community Manager until the role is filled. AJV (Executive Session
    HR)

## Announcements

## Adjournment

  - Next meeting date/time: May 18, 2016, 07:00-08:30 PDT
  - [TimeZone
    Converter](http://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/meetingdetails.html?year=2016&month=05&day=18&hour=14&min=0&sec=0&p1=224&p2=24&p3=263&p4=78&p5=37&p6=102&p7=152)

## Motion to close meeting