### Friday, October 1st 2010

**Location**: Barclays Capital, 5 North Colonnade, Canary Wharf, London
E14 4BB

  - **How I Met Your Girlfriend - Samy Kamkar**
      -
        The discovery and execution of entirely new classes of attacks
        executed from the Web in order to meet your girlfriend. This
        includes newly discovered attacks including HTML5 client-side
        XSS (without XSS hitting the server\!), PHP session hijacking
        and weak random numbers (accurately guessing PHP session
        cookies), browser protocol confusion (turning a browser into an
        SMTP server), firewall and NAT penetration via Javascript
        (turning your router against you), remote iPhone Google Maps
        hijacking (iPhone penetration combined with HTTP
        man-in-the-middle), extracting extremely accurate geolocation
        information from a Web browser (not using IP geolocation), and
        more

<!-- end list -->

  - **Padding Oracle attacks (and ASP.NET 0-day) - Justin Clarke
    ([PDF](Media:Fun_with_Padding_Oracles.pdf "wikilink"))**
      -
        Change of plan from the previous announcement - I'm going to go
        through Padding Oracle attacks (as recently re-popularised by
        Thai Duong and Juliano Rizzo), as well as demoing the 0-day
        Padding Oracle attack on ASP.NET (time permitting)

### Thursday, September 9th 2010

**Location**: Deloitte, 2 New Street Square, London, EC4A 3BZ

  - **CAT - Michael Jordon
    ([PDF](Media:Cat-OWASP_Sept_2010.pdf "wikilink"))**
      -
        Context Application Tool (CAT) is a tool for performing manual
        web application penetration testing. The presentation will show
        the main features of CAT with demonstrations of where CAT can
        perform tests that other tools currently available cannot and
        how CAT empowers the user to create more complex test cases to
        further explore the boundaries of the application. The focus of
        CAT is on manual penetration testing and not on automated web VA
        scanning. Also a sneak preview of the current features that are
        currently in development an due to be release late this year.

<!-- end list -->

  - **Security in the SDLC: IT Doesn't Have To Be Painful\! - Matt
    Bartoldus ([PDF](Media:SSDLC_painful_-_owasp.pdf "wikilink"))**
      -
        Why do organizations fail so miserably at Application Security?
        Even after investing millions into Information Security
        programs? Organizations are addressing application security
        through initiatives from hiring their first 'Security Person' to
        investing in large time and resource intensive projects. Great\!
        So how come security breaches through applications are still on
        the rise and showing no signs of abatement? Is the security
        industry failing? This talk will focus on what the speaker has
        experienced over the past few years while working with his
        clients to integrate information security practices into IT
        processes. This includes large Global Top 100 to medium domestic
        UK companies. The focus will be around some of the different
        approaches that were taken and the things that worked and the
        things that failed miserably. In the end, the audience will be
        able to take away real world experiences for consideration. The
        talk will start by discussing some of the more interesting
        angles the speaker has seen when presenting the business case
        for a security integration project investment. This includes
        stepping outside of the traditional security professional
        arguments and adopting the viewpoint from other parts of an
        organization. The speaker will then discuss the age old IT
        consultant's mantra of People, Process and Technology and where
        security practices fits in. The focus will be on process and
        people rather than technology. Building upon a business case and
        the theories around people and processes, we will discuss how to
        move forward with integrating information security practices
        into the SDLC. Lastly, we'll talk about the 'gotchas', the
        pitfalls, traps, and other 'bad things' from perceptions to
        internal politics. These are discussed in a light-hearted manner
        through example experiences and 'war stories.' The speaker hopes
        they will be considered at the beginning of a security
        initiative or project part of project risk and critical success
        Factors\!

### Thursday, July 15th 2010

**Location**: Commerzbank AG, Gaumont Suite, 6th floor, 30 Gresham
Street, London, EC2V 7PG

  - **Auditing WebObjects Applications - Ilja van Sprundel
    ([PDF](Media:WebObjects.pdf "wikilink"))**
      -
        WebObjects is Apple's application server and web application
        framework. To date very little is known about how secure
        applications are written for the WebObjects application server.
        This presentation tries to shed some light on this question.
        It'll discuss what WebObjects applications look like, what their
        entrypoints are, and where the weak spots are in the API's and
        usage.

<!-- end list -->

  - **O2 1.0 Launch - Dinis Cruz**
      -
        Short session - awaiting talk outline

<!-- end list -->

  - **Real Time Application Attack Detection and Response with OWASP
    AppSensor - Colin Watson
    ([PDF](http://www.owasp.org/index.php/File:Owasp-london-20100715-appsensor-3.pdf))**
      -
        The AppSensor project defines a conceptual framework and
        methodology that offers prescriptive guidance to implement
        intrusion detection and automated response into an existing
        application. The talk will provide an overview why conventional
        defences do not work, and how application intrusion detection
        can be used to identify, and respond to, attackers before they
        are able to find a flaw to exploit. Implementations will be
        described that have been tested against security scanning tools,
        manual attackers and how the technique could be used to defend
        against an application worm.

### [London/Training/OWASP projects and resources you can use TODAY](London/Training/OWASP_projects_and_resources_you_can_use_TODAY "wikilink")

![Owasp_banner4.gif](Owasp_banner4.gif "Owasp_banner4.gif")

  - **Overview & Goal**
      - Apart from OWASP's Top 10, most OWASP Projects are not widely
        used and understood. In most cases this is not due to lack of
        quality and usefulness of those Document & Tool projects, but
        due to a lack of understanding of where they fit in an
        Enterprise's security ecosystem or in the Web Application
        Development Life-cycle.
      - This course aims to change that by providing a selection of
        mature and enterprise ready projects together with practical
        examples of how to use them.
      - The course will be very practical where demonstration and
        hands-on exercises will be provided for the tools covered.
      - If you are interested in participating in the hands on portion
        of the course, please bring a laptop.
  - **Dates**
      - April, 16th, 2010
      - May, 28th, 2010
  - **Course Main Content and Registration**
      - [Click
        here](London/Training/OWASP_projects_and_resources_you_can_use_TODAY "wikilink")

### Thursday, March 4th 2010

**Location**: Nomura, Nomura House, 1 St Martins-le-Grand, London EC1A
4NP

  - **OWASP Top Ten 2010 - Fabio Cerrulo**
    ([PDF](Media:OWASP_Top_10_-_2010_rc1.pdf "wikilink"))
      -
        The primary aim of the OWASP Top 10 is to educate developers,
        designers, architects and organisations about the consequences
        of the most important web application security weaknesses. The
        Top 10 provides basic methods to protect against these high risk
        problem areas and provides guidance on where to go from there.
        The Top 10 project is referenced by many standards, books,
        tools, and organisations, including MITRE, PCI DSS, DISA, FTC,
        and many more. The OWASP Top 10 was initially released in 2003
        and minor updates were made in 2004, 2007, and this 2010
        release. We encourage you to use the Top 10 to get your
        organisation started with application security so developers can
        learn from the mistakes of other organisations. Executives can
        start thinking about how to manage the risk that software
        applications create in their enterprise.
        This significant update presents a more concise, risk focused
        list of the Top 10 Most Critical Web Application Security Risks.
        The OWASP Top 10 has always been about risk, but this update
        makes this much more clear than previous editions, and provides
        additional information on how to assess these risks for your
        applications. For each Top 10 item, this release discusses the
        general likelihood and consequence factors that are used to
        categorise the typical severity of the risk, and then presents
        guidance on how to verify whether you have problems in this
        area, how to avoid them, some example flaws in that area, and
        pointers to links with more information.

### Thursday, January 14th 2010

**Location**: Nomura, Nomura House, 1 St Martins-le-Grand, London EC1A
4NP

  - **Top Ten Deployment Mistakes That Render SSL Useless - Ivan
    Ristic**
    ([PDF](http://ivanr.typepad.com/files/ivan_ristic-how_to_render_ssl_useless.pdf))
      -
        SSL is the technology that secures the Internet, but it only
        works when properly configured. Unfortunately, because SSL is
        assumed to be easy to use (and it genuinely is), there is a lack
        of information how to use it properly. As a result, too many web
        sites use insecure deployment practices that render SSL
        completely useless. In this talk I will present a list of top
        ten (or thereabout) deployment mistakes, based on my work on the
        SSL Labs assessment platform.

<!-- end list -->

  - **Using Selenium to hold state for web application penetration
    testing - Yiannis Pavlosoglou**
    ([PDF](Media:OWASP_London_14-Jan-2009_Penetration_Testing_with_Selenium-Yiannis_Pavlosoglou_v2.pdf "wikilink"))
      -
        Selenium is a web application testing framework often used for
        unit testing and functional testing during the later parts of
        web application development. This presentation examines how this
        tool, in particular the [Selenium IDE](http://seleniumhq.org),
        can be used for creating security unit tests. By emulating a
        systematic logon, logoff or browse to a particular location, web
        application penetration tests can be performed using Selenium.
        Furthermore, fuzzing payloads can be scripted as inputs for
        security tests. As a result, issues of holding state, or having
        valid authentication credentials to test a particular input for,
        say, Cross Site Scripting (XSS) or SQL Injection can be
        performed in a much shorter time duration. This presentation
        will take the audience through the process of setting up,
        scripting and running Selenium against a vulnerable web
        application. It's aim is to relay back one successful approach
        that has been used in the field in order to discover
        vulnerabilities through stateful fuzzing.

### Thursday, November 5th 2009

**Location**: Lloyds TSB, 5th Floor Seminar Room, Red Lion Court, 46-48
Park Street, London SE1 9EQ.

  - **SQL Injection - How far does the rabbit hole go? - Justin Clarke**
    ([PDF](Media:OWASP-SQLInjection5nov09.pdf "wikilink"))
      -
        SQL Injection has been around for over 10 years, and yet it is
        still to this day not truly understood by many security
        professionals and developers. With the recent mass attacks
        against sites across the world it has again come to the fore of
        vulnerabilities under the spotlight, however many consider it to
        only be a data access issue, or parameterized queries to be a
        panacea. This talk starts from what was demonstrated last year
        at Black Hat in Las Vegas, where a self propagating SQL
        Injection worm was demonstrated live on stage. Explore some of
        the deeper, darker areas of SQL Injection, hybrid attacks, and
        exploiting obscure database functionality.

<!-- end list -->

  - **The London OWASP Chapter: Where to next? - Justin Clarke**
      -
        We have a enormous amount of web application security experience
        and knowhow in the London area, but the question is how can we
        tap that at OWASP? And what can we, or what should we do with
        that? This session will be an open discussion (to be continued
        later over a beer no doubt) to discuss where we want to go with
        OWASP London, with you (the participants) being able to share
        what you would like to get out of, and what you'd be willing to
        put into the OWASP London chapter. Justin will be facilitating
        the discussion, but planned topics include growth and outreach,
        management of the chapter (i.e. a chapter board?), and what we
        want to do with our meetings.

### Thursday, September 3rd 2009

**Location**: Lloyds TSB, 5th Floor Seminar Room, Red Lion Court, 46-48
Park Street, London SE1 9EQ.

  - **OWASP O2 Platform - Open Platform for automating application
    security knowledge and workflows - Dinis Cruz**
    ([PDF](Media:OWASP_O2_Platform_-_London_Chapter_-_3rd_Sep_2009.pdf "wikilink"))
      -
        In this talk Dinis Cruz will show the open source toolkit O2
        (Ounce Open) which is specifically designed for developers and
        security consultants to be able to perform quick, effective and
        thorough source code security reviews. The O2 toolkit
        (http://www.o2-ounceopen.com) uses the scanning engines from
        Ounce Labs, Microsoft's CAT.NET tool and FindBugs (with more
        engines to be added soon) and allows advanced filtering,
        manipulation and visualization of its findings. In the past,
        there has been a very healthy skepticism on the usability of
        Source Code analysis engines to find commonly found
        vulnerablities in real world applications. This presentation
        will show that with some creative and powerful tools, it IS
        possible to use O2 to discover those issues.

<!-- end list -->

  - **Using Surrogates to Protect from Application Data Breach - Dave
    Marsh** ([PDF](Media:Dave_Marsh_Tokenisation.pdf "wikilink"))
      -
        Companies are being challenged to store Personal Identifiable
        Information (PII) data in increasingly more secure environments,
        and also to comply with increasing standards of data security,
        for instance Payment Card Industry’s Data Security Standard (PCI
        DSS). Because all systems that accept or use PII/CC data are
        considered “in scope” for compliance, there are very few ways to
        “cut corners” when seeking compliance, and at the same time
        maintain your current business model.
        This session will present a concept and use of a new data
        security model, tokenization, which substitutes “data
        surrogates” for PII/CC numbers in systems throughout the
        enterprise, thus reducing scope for compliance and annual
        audits, as well as lowering the risk of a data breach. This
        session will cover:
        1.  The value of a centralized data vault for PII/CC data
        2.  How tokens act as data surrogates
        3.  Using surrogates for masked data
        4.  The importance of a one-to-one token/data relationship
        5.  How tokens are generated, and
        6.  The security benefits of centralized key management

### Thursday, July 9th 2009

**Location**: Barclays, Rooms 42/43, One Churchill Place, London E14 5HP

  - **Auditing C\# Code - Ilja van Sprundel**
    ([PDF](Media:IOActive-OWASP-London-200907.pdf "wikilink"))
      -
        In this presentation, Ilja van Sprundel, Principal Consultant at
        IOActive, will discuss reviewing C\# code, specifically C\# code
        used for ASP.NET. He will cover entrypoints, exit points, .NET
        input validators, corner cases of API's, integer rules, managed
        vs unmanaged code, the garbage collector, exception handling
        issues, XSS cases, SQL Injection bugs, XML handling issues and
        usage of Anti-XSS.

<!-- end list -->

  - **The Ultimate IDS Smackdown - How red vs. blue situations can
    influence more than one might assume - Mario Heiderich and Gareth
    Heyes** ([PDF](Media:The_Ultimate_IDS_Smackdown.pdf "wikilink"))
      -
        The talk is a vector and coding showdown between the lead dev of
        the PHPIDS and one of its most determined challengers trying and
        managing to break it wherever possible. Expect a bloody battle
        between security researchers and developers without limits,
        regular expression magic against code obfuscation excellence
        leading to an interesting result about vs-situations in software
        development and IT security.

### Thursday, May 21st 2009

**Location**: Barclays, Presentation Suite 2, One Churchill Place,
London E14 5HP

  - **Hash Cookies - A simple recipe - John Fitzpatrick**
    ([PDF](Media:Hash-cookies_2009-05-21.pdf "wikilink"))
      -
        Hash cookies is a concept devised in concert with a couple of
        other guys whilst discussing an application test we were working
        on. The goal of hash cookies being to make session hijacking
        attempts infeasible through re-hashing the session cookie on
        future requests to the server.
        The aim of this talk is to put across the concept of hash
        cookies and then have the audience don their ninja suits and
        break it. That way we can work towards a robust secure mechanism
        for securing sessions which, hopefully, hash cookies is a good
        solid step towards.

<!-- end list -->

  - **OWASP Google Hacking Project - Christian Heinrich** ([PDF
    (zipped)](Media:Cmlh_-_OWASP_Google_Hacking_Project_-_OWASP_EU_2009_and_OWASP_London_Chapter_May_2009_Meeting_-_Post_Update_22_May_2009.zip "wikilink"))
      -
        Two Proof of Concepts (PoC) used during the reconnaissance phase
        of a penetration test will be demonstrated:
        1.  "TCP Input Text" extracts TCP Ports and Fully Qualified
            Domain Names (FQDN) from Google Search Results into a .csv
            file and individual shell scripts for nmap and netcat to
            provide assurance of a listening TCP service since the last
            crawl performed by the "GoogleBot".
        2.  "Download Indexed Cache" retrieves content indexed within
            the Google Cache and supports the "Search Engine
            Reconnaissance" section of the recently released OWASP
            Testing Guide v3. During the demonstration of "Download
            Indexed Cache", the superiority of this approach will be
            proven over lesser methodologies, such as "Google Hacking"
            and the associated Google Hacking Database (GHDB).
        The impact of mitigating controls, such as
        <META>
        Tags and robots.txt, based on the recommendations within the
        "Spiders/Robots/Crawlers" section of the recently released OWASP
        Testing Guide v3, will be explained.

### Thursday, March 12th 2009

**Location**: KPMG, 39th Floor, One Canada Sq, E14 5AG

  - **OWASP Global Industry Committee - Colin Watson**
    ([PDF](Media:Owasp-london-industry-committee-march-2009.pdf "wikilink"))
      -
        The Global Industry Committee was one of six new OWASP
        committees created during the EU Summit in Portugal last year.
        Colin Watson will talk about the committee's aims, plan, how to
        get involved, who it has been engaging with and what else it has
        been doing in the first few months.

<!-- end list -->

  - **The Software Assurance Maturity Model - Introduction and a Use
    Case - Matt Bartoldus** ([PDF](Media:OpenSAMM.pdf "wikilink"))
      -
        The OWASP CLASP Project has been going through modification to
        move more towards a maturity model. As a result, the Software
        Assurance Maturity Model (SAMM) project has been released in a
        beta version. The goal is to "define a usable security framework
        with sequential, measurable goals that can be used by small,
        medium, and large organisations in any line of business that
        involves software development". This talk will introduce SAMM
        and give a brief overview of its contents. We will then discuss
        how SAMM is currently being used to measure the level of
        information security activities within an EU based financial
        organisation's development methodology and providing the
        framework for implementing such activities into their everyday
        development activities (SDLC).

<!-- end list -->

  - **SQL injection: Not only AND 1=1 - Bernardo Damele A. G.**
    ([PDF](Media:SQLinjectionNotOnly.pdf "wikilink"))
      -
        The presentation will cover a quick preamble on SQL injection
        definition, sqlmap and its key features. It will then illustrate
        the details of common and uncommon problems and respective
        solutions with examples that a penetration tester or a SQL
        injection tool developer faces when he wants to take advantage
        of any kind of web application SQL injection flaw on real world
        web applications, for instance SQL injection in ORDER BY and
        LIMIT clauses, single entry UNION query SQL injection, blind SQL
        injection algorithm speed enhancements, specific web application
        technologies IDS bypasses and more.

<!-- end list -->

  - **Thursday, December 4th**

<!-- end list -->

  -   - **Location**: KPMG, 39th Floor, One Canada Sq, E14 5AG

**Justin Clarke: SQL Injection Worms for Fun and Profit**
([PDF](Media:SPF.pdf "wikilink"))

Earlier this year the first (publicly known) SQL Injection worm
appeared. This worm used SQL Injection to insert malicious scripting
tags into the pages of over 90,000 sites that were vulnerable to SQL
injection.

Yet the exploit vector was fairly innocuous, easy to clean up, and easy
to block. In other words, very much version 0.1 of what a SQL Injection
worm can achieve.

This talk is going to discuss how far the rabbit hole can go with SQL
injection based worms, including full compromise of the server OS, and
why we should be worried by what is going to be coming next out of
Russia/China/wherever, including a live demo of a proof of concept SQL
injection worm, "weaponized".

**Dinis Cruz: OWASP Summit 2008 Report**

The [OWASP
Summit 2008](http://www.owasp.org/index.php/OWASP_EU_Summit_2008) has
been a great success. Dinis, also known as Chief OWASP Evangelist, is
going to tell us what we've missed.

**Andrew Nairn: Protecting Vulnerable Applications with IIS7**
([PDF](Media:SQL_Injection_for_Fun_&_Profit.pdf‎ "wikilink"))

With the advent of IIS7 and its modular design, Microsoft has provided
the ability to easily integrate custom ASP.NET HttpModules into the IIS7
request-handling pipeline. This session will present an IIS7 module
designed to leverage this architecture to actively and dynamically
protect web applications from attack. With minimal configuration, the
module can be used to protect virtually any application running on the
web server, including non-ASP.NET applications (such as those written in
PHP, Cold Fusion, or classic ASP).

This presentation will outline the overall design and architecture of
the module, including a detailed explanation of available features and
attack defense techniques. The session will focus on live demonstrations
of how the module can easily be installed to protect already-deployed
applications and how it can block both traditional web application
attacks, such as SQL injection and Cross-Site Scripting, and
application-specific vulnerabilities like parameter manipulation and
authorization attacks.

  - **Thursday, September 4th**

<!-- end list -->

  -   - **Location**: KPMG 39th Floor, One Canada Sq, E14 5AG, starting
        at 7pm (arrive between 6.30pm and 7pm), ending by 9pm. KMPG are
        sponsoring the meeting. Complementary drinks and snacks will be
        provided.

**James Fisher: DirBuster & Beyond**
([PDF](https://www.owasp.org/images/f/f4/DirBuster_OWASP-London_September-2008.pdf))

An introduction to the DirBuster project, detailing how it works, what
it can do for you, and the direction it will be taking in the future.
Followed by an introduction to my unreleased project FuzzBuster, showing
why it's different to other HTTP fuzzes out there.

**Yiannis Pavlosoglou: JBroFuzz**

\[Summary will be updated if I get it from Yiannis, but you can always
go to the [JBroFuzz project
homepage](http://www.owasp.org/index.php/Category:OWASP_JBroFuzz) for
more information.

  - **Thursday, July 24th**

<!-- end list -->

  -   - **Location**: Auriol Kensington Rowing Club
        ([map](http://www.akrowing.com/page.php?page=findus)), starting
        at 7pm (arrive between 6.30pm and 7pm). [Breach
        Security](http://www.breach.com) is sponsoring the meeting by
        paying for the costs of the venue.

<!-- end list -->

  -   - **Programme**
      - 18:30 Arrive and make yourselves comfortable.
      - 19:00 Dinis Cruz: What is going on at OWASP?
      - 19:20 Colin Watson: Nominet Best Practices Award briefing
        ([PDF](https://www.owasp.org/images/6/69/Owasp-london-bestpractice2008.pdf))
      - 19:45 Dennis Hurst: AJAX / Web 2.0 / WebServices security
        concerns
        ([PDF](https://www.owasp.org/images/9/90/Testing_Finance_2_June_2008.pdf))
      - 20:30 Dinis Cruz: Building a tool for Security consultants: A
        story of a customized source code scanner
      - 21:15 Ivan Ristic: Evaluation Criteria for Web Application
        Firewalls
        ([PDF](http://www.owasp.org/images/f/f4/AppSecEU08_Evaluation_Criteria_for_Web_Application_Firewalls.pdf))
        (talk from the recent OWASP AppSec Europe conference in Ghent).

<!-- end list -->

  - **Thursday, April 3rd**

<!-- end list -->

  -   - **Location**: Auriol Kensington Rowing Club
        ([map](http://www.akrowing.com/page.php?page=findus)), starting
        at 7pm (arrive between 6.30pm and 7pm). [Breach
        Security](http://www.breach.com) is sponsoring the meeting by
        paying for the costs of the venue.

<!-- end list -->

  -   - **Programme**
      - 18h30 Arrive and make yourselves comfortable.
      - 19h00 [PHP Code Analysis: Real World
        Examples](http://www.withdk.com/archives/PHP%20Code%20Analysis-%20Real%20World%20Examples.pdf)
        (David Kierznowski)
      - 20h00 [Abusing PHP sockets for fun and
        profit](http://www.secforce.co.uk/research/socket_reuse/PHP_socket_reuse_attacks.pdf)
        (Rodrigo Marcos; also available: [source
        code](http://www.secforce.co.uk/research/socket_reuse/socket_attack.zip),
        [Flash
        demo](http://www.secforce.co.uk/research/socket_reuse/PHP_socket_reuse.html))
      - 20h45 Web Application Security Badges (Colin Watson) -
        [PDF](Media:owasp-london-security-badges.pdf "wikilink")
      - 21h00 Discussion: OWASP [Best Practice Challenge 2008
        nomination](http://www.nic.uk/about/bestpracticechallenge/).
      - 21h30 End.

<!-- end list -->

  - **Thursday, December 6th**

<!-- end list -->

  -   - **Location**: Auriol Kensington Rowing Club
        ([map](http://www.akrowing.com/page.php?page=findus)), starting
        at 7pm (arrive between 6.30pm and 7pm). [Breach
        Security](http://www.breach.com) sponsoring the meeting by
        paying for the costs of the venue.

<!-- end list -->

  -   - **Programme**
      - 18h30 Arrive and make yourselves comfortable.
      - 19h00 Adrian Pastor: Cracking into embedded devices and beyond\!
        ([Media:Cracking-into-embedded-devices-and-beyond.pdf](Media:Cracking-into-embedded-devices-and-beyond.pdf "wikilink"))
      - 19h45 Rodrigo Marcos: Blind SQL Injection: Optimization
        Techniques
        ([PPT](http://www.gnucitizen.org/blog/security-and-hacking-scene-in-london/BlindSQLinjection.ppt)).
      - 20h15 OWASP London Chapter (discussion).
      - 20h45 PDP: Client-Side Security (discussion).
      - 21h30 End.

<!-- end list -->

  - **Wednesday, September 5th** (participating in the [OWASP
    Day](OWASP_Day "wikilink") event). Read meeting notes
    [here](https://lists.owasp.org/pipermail/owasp-london/2007-September/000187.html).
      - Location: Auriol Kensington Rowing Club
        ([map](http://www.akrowing.com/page.php?page=findus)), starting
        at 7pm (arrive between 6.30pm and 7pm). [Breach
        Security](http://www.breach.com) sponsored the meeting by paying
        for the costs of the venue.

<!-- end list -->

  - **Programme**:
      - 18h30 Arrive and make yourselves comfortable.
      - 19h00 [Petko D. Petkov](http://gnucitizen.org/about/pdp), a.k.a
        pdp (architect), founder of the
        [GNUCITIZEN](http://gnucitizen.org) group:
        \[<http://www.owasp.org/index.php/Belgium#For_my_next_trick>..._hacking_Web2.0_.28pdp.29
        For my next trick... hacking Web2.0\].
      - 20h00 Discussion: "Privacy in the 21st Century?", moderator:
        Ivan Ristic.
      - 21h00 Discussion: "Future of the OWASP London Chapter".
      - 21h30 End

<!-- end list -->

  - **Thursday 22nd March**
      - Location: The Water Poet Pub, Liverpool St, London
        [map](http://www.beerintheevening.com/cgi-bin/map_link.cgi?id=17986&type=8)
        ,
        [description](http://www.beerintheevening.com/pubs/s/17/17986/Water_Poet/Shoreditch)
      - We are going to use the downstairs room which you can access
        from the back of the pub
  - **Presentations**:
      - [Mark O'Neill](Mark_O'Neill "wikilink") "Security
        Vulnerabilities in AJAX and Web 2.0" - 60 m
      - [Dinis Cruz](Dinis_Cruz "wikilink") "OWASP Spring of Code and
        Owasp world update " - 30 m

<!-- end list -->

  - **Thursday 22nd February**
      - Location: The Water Poet Pub, Liverpool St, London
        [map](http://www.beerintheevening.com/cgi-bin/map_link.cgi?id=17986&type=8)
        ,
        [description](http://www.beerintheevening.com/pubs/s/17/17986/Water_Poet/Shoreditch)
      - We are going to use the downstairs room which you can access
        from the back of the pub
  - **Presentations**:
      - by **Dinis Cruz (Chief OWASP Evangelist)** :
          - **OWASP, the Open Web Application Security Project** 30m -
            The Open Web Application Security Project (OWASP) is an open
            community dedicated to enabling organizations to develop,
            purchase, and maintain applications that can be trusted. All
            of the OWASP tools, documents, blogs, and chapters are free
            and open to anyone interested in improving application
            security. In this presentation Dinis will show the latest
            guides and tools from OWASP which should be part of every
            company's security efforts.
          - **Buffer Overflows on .Net and Asp.Net** 30m - One of the
            common myths about the .Net Framework is that it is immune
            to Buffer Overflows. Although this might be correct in pure
            managed and verifiable .Net code, large percentage of .Net
            and Asp.Net applications code is unmanaged code. In this
            talk Dinis will show the areas in .Net and Asp.Net
            applications that are vulnerable to Buffer Overflows
            (including the demo of a .Net Buffer Overflow Fuzzer).
          - **0wning Vista's userland - The CAS / UAC missed opportunity
            , and what I think MS should had done** - In this
            presentation Dinis will explore the missed opportunity by
            Microsoft to use technologies like .Net's CAS (Code Access
            Security) and Vista's UAC (User Access Control) to create
            secure and trustworthy userland environments that protect
            the user's assets. In the hope that might make a small
            difference, ideas and solutions for the future will also be
            presented.
      - by **Ivan Ristic**:
          - **ModSecurity** - 30m

<!-- end list -->

  - **Schedule**:
      - 6pm - 7pm arrive and grab a drink
      - 7:00 - **OWASP, the Open Web Application Security Project**,
        Dinis Cruz
      - 7:45 - **ModSecurity**, Ivan Ristic
      - 8:15 - **Buffer Overflows on .Net and Asp.Net**, Dinis Cruz
      - 8:50 - 0wning Vista's userland - The CAS / UAC missed
        opportunity, and what I think MS should had done, Dinis Cruz
      - 9:00 - Dinner