This page is maintained by the [Global Projects
Committee](Global_Projects_Committee "wikilink") to help assist Project
Leaders with information about successfully running an OWASP Project. It
will be updated from time to time, and changes will be discussed and
announced on the OWASP-Leaders list.

### Overview

OWASP created the project assessment criteria to define the quality
levels for OWASP Projects with the purpose of evaluating all OWASP
projects. The overall goal was to ensure that consistent quality levels
are maintained by OWASP projects. This benefits both the external
audience and those working on projects. The criteria allows the external
audience to determine the quality of any OWASP project they are
considering. For project members, it provides a method to measure the
quality of their project in relation to other OWASP projects.
Additionally, the criteria allows for excellent contributions to be
recognized and projects which need further work to be identified.

Currently, OWASP projects fall into three primary categories:

  - Tools
  - Documents
  - Activities and Research

The *Tools* and *Documents* categories are easily understood. The
*Activities and Research* category is less obvious and is used for
projects which either have multiple sub-projects or have project
releases which fall into both the tools and documents category. Thus,
Activities and Research can be used for parent projects that cover
multiple smaller sub-projects. Some examples will make this clearer:

  - OWASP ESAPI
      - Java
      - .Net
      - PHP
      - ...

<!-- end list -->

  - OWASP Guides
      - Testing Guide
      - Development Guide
      - Code Review Guide
      - ASDR (Application Security Desk Reference)

<!-- end list -->

  - OWASP OpenPGP Extensions for HTTP - Enigform and mod_openpgp

All existing projects and their current ratings are
[here](http://www.owasp.org/index.php/Category:OWASP_Project). Any new
OWASP project and its releases will be assessed based on the criteria
below as well as any new [Season of
Code](http://www.owasp.org/index.php/Category:OWASP_Season_of_Code)
project. The goal is to eventually have all OWASP projects and releases,
past and future, assessed under a version of this criteria. The initial
set of assessment criteria was created for the OWASP Summer of Code 2008
and was designated version 1.0. The current version below was derived
from version 1.0 and is version 2.0. Labelling any new criteria with a
version number allows for graceful transitions to occur should any
criteria change.

### Assessing a project

Any OWASP project will consist of two critical pieces:

  - the project's health
  - one or more project releases

Each of these pieces will be have different methods with which they are
reviewed.

  - [Assessing Project Health](Assessing_Project_Health "wikilink")
  - [Assessing Project Releases](Assessing_Project_Releases "wikilink")

### People and Projects

Depending on the size and scope of a project, the roles below may be
done by separate parties or a single individual may take on multiple
roles. Roles vary in their level on involvement with the project, the
areas of involvement, their lifespan with a project, etc.

  - Project Leader
  - Project Maintainer
  - Project Contributor
  - Project Reviewer
  - Project Mentor

Each role will be described in the next revision of this document
--[Mtesauro](User:Mtesauro "wikilink") 16:09, 4 May 2009 (UTC)

[Category:OWASP Project
Assessment](Category:OWASP_Project_Assessment "wikilink")
[Category:Global_Projects_Committee](Category:Global_Projects_Committee "wikilink")