### October 2010 Meeting

**WHAT::** October Chapter Meeting - Rapid development of web security
tools using SpiderSense

**WHEN::** October 13th 2010 - 7-9PM

**WHERE::** Room \# 053, College of Computing, Georgia Tech | [Maps and
Directions](http://www.cc.gatech.edu/about/directions#ccb)

**WHO::** **Steve Millar, GTRI**

Steve Millar is a Senior Research Engineer with the Georgia Tech
Research Institute (GTRI). He is interested in .NET and all things on
the web. So, building web tools is a passion that he simply cannot
ignore. Steve is interested in building a high-performance framework for
rapidly constructing any kind of web tool that can be imagined by
humans. He is also keenly interested in building a thriving community
around this code and overall concept. In a former life, Steve was the
lead architect and SW development manager for HP's WebInspect product
line where he spent a lot of time obsessing over how to automate web
security tasks inside a large, complex, multi-threaded application.
Hopefully he learned enough to help make this simpler for less obsessed
people. Steve also thinks it is strange to refer to himself in the third
person.

'''ABSTRACT:: '''

Web Security tools are everywhere and they come in multiple flavors from
freely downloadable binaries to open source libraries to commercial
application suites. Unfortunately, they never seem to do exactly what
you need and they are not always easy to extend or configure. Wouldn't
it be nice if the tools were inter-operable, easy to construct (think
Lego blocks) and high-performance? Something more useful than just a few
Python scripts and a prayer. Georgia Tech's Cyber Technology and
Information Security Lab is on a mission to provide such a tool
framework.

SpiderSense is a .NET code library and suite of tools that enables rapid
development of web security tools and data mining applications. The core
pillars of SpiderSense are a high performance web crawler, a modular and
extensible analysis engine and pluggable content parsers. These modules
can be combined quickly and flexibly to create data gathering and
discovery tools. SpiderSense also enables the crafting of non-standard
HTTP payloads that can be used in automated penetration testing and
web-based exploitation. The framework also uses a plug-in analysis model
to allow experimentation with a broad range of analysis algorithms. If
you can do it with HTTP then you can do it with SpiderSense.

We will show just a few slides to outline the problem then quickly dive
into SpiderSense starting with demonstrations of a few tools and
finishing with a discussion of architecture, community and the
development roadmap. Hopefully we can get some good brain-storms to
occur around the topics of cool features and ways for the community to
contribute. The speaker also wants to walk away with some great ideas
about possible extensibility points from the audience. Bring your
thinking cap and your good ideas about web tools and we'll roll up our
sleeves and talk code\!

**Presentation::**
[DOWNLOAD](http://www.owasp.org/images/e/e9/OwaspAtl_Oct_2010_Rapid_Tool_Development_With_SpiderSense.pptx)