**WHAT::** Security Religions & Risk Windows

**WHERE::** TSRB auditorium : [Web](http://www.tsrb.gatech.edu/) :
[Directions](http://www.tsrb.gatech.edu/TSRB_Directions-Detour.pdf) :
[Google-Maps](http://maps.google.com/maps?f=q&source=s_q&hl=en&geocode=&q=TSRB+gatech&sll=33.778463,-84.398881&sspn=0.040308,0.076818&ie=UTF8&ll=33.781858,-84.39414&spn=0.040307,0.076818&z=14&iwloc=A)

**WHEN::** October 13, 2009 6-8pm

**WHO::** Jeremiah Grossman, CTO WhiteHat Security

'''ABSTRACT:: ''' Information security threats are way up, fraud losses
continue to rise, regulatory fines are increasingly common, and budget
dollars to solve these myriad problems are in short supply. Hampered by
a sluggish economy, organizations simply cannot afford to hire all the
talent they need, implement every best-practice, or buy every
blinking-light widget on the market. Sacrifices are unavoidable, and
still risk must be managed. Each organization must decide for itself the
level of risk it is willing to accept.

There is a difference between what is possible and what is probable,
something we often lose sight of in the world of information security.
For example, a vulnerability represents a possible way for an attacker
to exploit an asset, but remember not all vulnerabilities are created
equal. Obviously, we must also keep in mind that a vulnerability's mere
existence does not necessarily mean it will be exploited, or indicate by
whom or to what extent. Some vulnerabilities are more difficult to
exploit than others and therefore attract different attackers.
Autonomous worms & viruses may attack one type of issue, while a
sentient targeted attacker may prefer another path. Better understanding
of these factors enables us to make informed business decisions about
website risk management and what is probable.

In this presentation, Jeremiah Grossman will discuss the two prevailing
but opposing security religions - Depth Religion and Breadth Religion.
Jeremiah will then review the common misconceptions associated with each
religion as it pertains to website security.

[Download
Presentation](http://www.owasp.org/images/5/52/OwaspAtl_Grossman_Security_Religions_10.13.09.pdf)

***COST***: No costs, but all donations will be accepted as it helps pay
for meeting related materials and provisions. Best way to support the
chapter is to become a member.