### September 2010 Meeting

**WHAT::** September Chapter Meeting

**WHEN::** September 15th 2010 - 7-9PM

**WHERE::** Building 400, 2nd floor. 1000 Abernathy Road, Building 400
Suite 250 Atlanta, GA 30328

**WHO::** **Rob Ragan** Rob Ragan is a Senior Security Associate at
Stach & Liu where he primarily performs application penetration tests
and source code review. Before joining Stach & Liu, Rob served as a
Software Engineer at Hewlett-Packard’s Application Security Center where
he developed web application security testing tools and conducted
application penetration testing. Rob actively conducts web application
security research and has presented at Black Hat, Defcon, InfoSec World,
and Outerz0ne. Rob has also has published several white papers and is a
contributing author to the upcoming Hacking Exposed: Web Applications
3rd edition.

'''ABSTRACT:: ''' Lord of the Bing: Taking back search engine hacking
from Google and Bing

During World War II the CIA created a special information intelligence
unit to exploit information gathered from openly available sources. One
classic example of the team’s resourcefulness was the ability to
determine whether Allied forces had successfully bombed bridges leading
into Paris based on increasing orange prices. Since then OSINT sources
have surged in number and diversity, but none can compare to the wealth
of information provided by the Internet. Attackers have been clever
enough in the past to take advantage of search engines to filter this
information to identify vulnerabilities. However, current search hacking
techniques have been stymied by search provider efforts to curb this
type of behavior. Not anymore - this demonstration-heavy presentation
picks up the subtle art of search engine hacking at the current state
and discusses why these techniques fail. Several new search engine
hacking techniques will be demonstrated that have resulted in remarkable
breakthroughs against both Google and Bing. New tools will be
demonstrated, along with the first ever "live vulnerability feed", which
will quickly become the new standard on how to detect and protect
yourself against these types of attacks.

**SLIDES::**
[Download](http://www.owasp.org/images/5/54/Owasp_Atl_Oct-2010_Meeting-Lord_of_The_Bing.pdf)