### May 2010 Meeting

**WHAT::** Clubbing WebApps with a Botnet

**WHEN::** Monday, May 24th, 2010 7-9pm

**WHERE::** Room 1116-W , Klaus Advanced Computing Building, Georgia
Tech ([Directions &
Parking](http://www.cc.gatech.edu/about/directions#klaus))

**WHO::** Gunter Ollman, VP of Research, Damballa. Gunter Ollmann has
over 20 years of experience within the information technology industry
and is a known veteran in the security space. Prior to joining Damballa,
Gunter held several strategic positions at IBM Internet Security Systems
(IBM ISS) with the most recent being the Chief Security Strategist. In
this role he was responsible for predicting the evolution of future
threats and helping guide IBM's overall security research and protection
strategy, as well as being the key IBM spokesperson on evolving threats
and mitigation techniques. He also held the role of Director of X-Force
as well as the former head of X-Force security assessment services for
EMEA while at ISS (which was acquired by IBM in 2006). Prior to joining
ISS, Gunter was the professional services director of Next Generation
Security Software (NGS), a vulnerability research and attack-based
consulting firm. Gunter has been a contributor to multiple leading
international IT and security focused magazines and journals, and has
authored, developed and delivered a number of highly technical courses
on Web application security. He is a well-known industry speaker
worldwide and is often invited to present at various international
security conferences. Gunter is also highly regarded in the press as an
expert source on security threats and is a frequently quoted by the
international media.

'''ABSTRACT:: ''' The lonely hacker taking pot-shots at a Web
application – seeking out an exploitable flaw - is quickly going the way
of the dinosaur. Why try to hack an application from a solitary host
using a single suite of tools when you can distribute and load-balance
the attack amongst a global collection of anonymous bots and even ramp
up the pace of attack by several orders of magnitude? If you’re going to
_really_ hack a Web application for commercial gain, the every-day
botnet is now core equipment in an attacker’s arsenal. Sure, DDoS and
other saturation attacks are possible – but the real benefits of
employing botnets to hack Web applications come from their sophisticated
scripting engines and command & control which allow even onerous
blind-SQL-injection attacks to be conducted in minutes rather than days.
If someone’s clubbing your Web application with a botnet, where are your
weaknesses and how much time have you really got?

'''PRESENTATION:: ''' <http://tinyurl.com/2c47eb6>

-----