### December 2011 Meeting

**WHAT::** December Chapter Meeting - 'Preventing Data Breaches using
Provenance-aware Firewalls'

**WHEN::** 15th of December 2011. 6-8pm

**WHERE::** Cumberland Pkwy Tilted Kilt
<http://atlanta-cumberland.tiltedkilt.com/>

**WHO::** Anirudh Ramachandran is a networks and systems security
researcher at Georgia Tech and the founder and CTO of Nouvou Inc., a
nascent data security startup. He has 6 years of experience developing
solutions in areas such as data breach prevention, high speed traffic
monitoring, network-level spam filtering, and botnet identification. He
graduated with a PhD in Computer Science from Georgia Tech in 2011.
<http://www.cc.gatech.edu/~avr>

**ABSTRACT::** Data breaches through Web application vulnerabilities
have become particularly rampant. Point solutions -- for example, a Web
Application Firewall that scans requests destined to the Web app -- can
only stop a limited number of attack patterns, and do not provide any
protection from a breach once a vulnerability is eventually exploited.
We have developed a complementary approach to prevent breaches based on
the idea that, if sensitive data is tracked closely enough, a breach can
be prevented without worrying about the Web application vulnerability
that led to the breach.

In this talk, I will present the architecture of SilverLine (associates
tamper-proof tags with database records and files, and uses an OS-level
module to track the flow of tagged data through the various components
of a Web application) and describe how we integrated SilverLine with a
popular open source e-Commerce Web application, OSCommerce.

***COST***: Free to all. Bring a Friend. However, please look to join
our chapter. Only $50. No pressure, but greatly appreciate. Non-profit
and good cause.

'**'PRESO**': TBD