**`Atlanta``   ``OWASP``   ``May``   ``2007``   ``Meeting`**

**Topic: PCI Compliance When: Monday June 18th 6:30pm - 8:30pm** Meeting
Location SPI Dynamics Headquarters 115 Perimeter Center Place NE South
Terraces Atlanta, GA 30346

Room is on the 1st Floor of the South Terraces building. Called
“Classroom”

See below for more on directions.

-----

This meeting is open to public and admission is free.

OWASP Atlanta - our mission as a local chapter of the Open Web
Application Security Project is to help promote awareness and
contributions to web application security.

Who Should Attend - anyone interested in Web Application Security
(management, security architects, developers, etc)

Please RSVP for this event.

RSVP for this event. Send email to: owasp-atlanta@lists.sourceforge.net
Also, Register to OWASP Atlanta mailing list at:
<http://lists.sourceforge.net/lists/listinfo/owasp-atlanta/>

-----

**Topic: Payment Card Industry Data Security Standard**

Presentations:

**PCI Requirements Conrad Clark CISSP**

Conrad Clark is a Security Engineer for S.P.I. Dynamics, Inc.
(www.spidynamics.com), the leading provider of web application security
testing software and services. Conrad is a Certified Information System
Security Professional (CISSP \#73743), and has over 15 years of
information system engineering and management experience in addition to
three years of technology consulting service with Deloitte Consulting.
Prior to joining SPI Dynamics, Conrad worked as a Senior Network
Security Engineer supporting a web-based payment portal system for
Verifone Inc. Prior to that he was the Manager of the Security
Operations Center for Interland Inc. Conrad is an expert in building,
deploying, and maintaining secured web-based financial transaction
systems. In addition, he has an expertise in scope, designing, planning
and implementation of enterprise level systems and applications, and
standard operating, business continuity, and disaster recover plans

**PCI Requirement 10 Logging and Monitoring Charles Burke CISSP**

Charles is the Atlanta OWASP Chair and a Security Consultant with
InfoSec Integrators, a provider of security technology integration
services.

-----

Location and Directions: SPI Dynamics Headquarters 115 Perimeter Center
Place NE South Terraces Atlanta, GA 30346

Room is on the 1st Floor of the South Terraces building. Called
“Classroom” There is a parking garage associated with building,
parking is free. However, the gates close at 7pm except for the one on
the 3rd level – so that is the one to use for exiting the garage after
the meeting.

Here is map quest link to our building:
<http://www.mapquest.com/maps/map.adp?country=US&countryid=US&addtohistory=&searchtype=address&cat=&address=115%20Perimeter%20Center%20Pl%20Ne&city=Atlanta&state=GA&zipcode=30346%2d1256&search=%20%20Search%20%20&searchtab=address>