April 2011 Meeting WHAT:: April Chapter Meeting - Demystifying WAFS with
Imperva, Accuvant and WhiteHat Security

WHEN:: 21th April 2011. 6-8pm

WHERE:: Tilted Kilt <http://tinyurl.com/4oh2thj>

WHO:: Multiple Speakers from Imperva, Accuvant & WhiteHat Security

ABSTRACTs::

Imperva:

Web Application Firewalls. These three words bring about intense
feelings of A) love or B) hate. There is no C. Why does the security
community suffer bi-polar disorder for one of the most widely adopted
application security technologies? Today, the WAF market exceeds $200M
in market size with tens of thousands of customers worldwide. Devin
Ramga, Security expert and WAF proponent, will discuss why WAFs are an
essential component of a sophisticated security strategy. Mr. Ramga will
address common use cases covering compliance as well as the WAFs role in
secure development lifecycles.

Accuvant:

One of the most commonly overlooked components of a Web Application
Infrastructures are the databases. Arguably, Oracle and Microsoft SQL
Server are the most commonly used commercial databases in the enterprise
today. In this short presentation we'll explore some of the most common
vulnerabilities found in these two databases, and their impact on your
web application infrastructure.

WhiteHat Security:

Organizations must develop a strategy for website risk management and
WhiteHat Security recognizes the value of product integration to provide
total website security. An integration of a WAF with WhiteHat Sentinel
detects and defends website vulnerabilities much more efficiently, and
resolves the disconnect between compliance intentions and actual
security. With virtual patching, the entire industry is brought to a new
level of website protection, with extreme accuracy and efficiency â€“
delivering rapid identification and immediate repair of vulnerabilities.
The end result is total website security.

Presentation Slides:
![<File:Database_Pen_Testing_OWASP_Atlanta_04212011.pdf>](Database_Pen_Testing_OWASP_Atlanta_04212011.pdf
"File:Database_Pen_Testing_OWASP_Atlanta_04212011.pdf")

COST: Free to all.