## The presentation

![Owasp_logo_normal.jpg](Owasp_logo_normal.jpg
"Owasp_logo_normal.jpg")Let's face it, hacking a web service generally
isn't rocket science. But what if the web service requires your message
to be sent in binary format instead of Text or XML? What if the web
service requires message level encryption but you don't have a key?
These are just a few common scenarios you are likely to encounter when
trying to attack a web service built on Windows Communication Foundation
(WCF). Through a series of live demonstrations, the presentation will
show how to identify WCF web services on the wire, the communication
protocols and message formatting options supported by WCF, and how to
attack WCF web services using familiar black-box vectors. WCF is the new
standard communications framework for .NET web services. WCF gives
developers the ability to use new protocols and message formatting
options like the NET.TCP protocol, WS-Security and Message Transmission
Optimization Mechanism (MTOM). These messaging options render most
common web service assessment utilities useless; however given an
understanding of how they work they are still susceptible to most common
attacks.

## The speaker

Brian Holyfield is a founding member of Gotham Digital Science. He has
worked in the information security industry for over 10 years, and
specializes in software security. Brian is a frequent speaker at various
security conferences and a regular contributor on the GDS Security blog.

[Category:OWASP_AppSec_DC_09](Category:OWASP_AppSec_DC_09 "wikilink")
[Category:OWASP_Conference_Presentations](Category:OWASP_Conference_Presentations "wikilink")