![468x60-banner-2010.gif](468x60-banner-2010.gif
"468x60-banner-2010.gif")

[Registration](https://guest.cvent.com/EVENTS/Register/IdentityConfirmation.aspx?e=d52c6f5f-d568-4e16-b8e0-b5e2bf87ab3a)
|
[Hotel](https://resweb.passkey.com/Resweb.do?mode=welcome_gi_new&groupID=2766908)
| [Walter E. Washington Convention
Center](http://www.dcconvention.com/)
\== The presentation ==

![Colin-watson-web.jpg](Colin-watson-web.jpg
"Colin-watson-web.jpg")OWASP AppSensor defines a conceptual framework,
methodology and guidance to implement intrusion detection and automated
response into an existing application. Over 50 detection points have
been described together with a number of response actions. A methodology
will be presented to plan AppSensor implementations. The planning stage
includes sensor selection and positioning, and determination of the
appropriate type of response to block or mitigate attacks based on an
analysis of business risk and other factors. A lightweight
implementation will also be described for organisations wishing to pilot
AppSensor in their applications.

## Colin Watson

Colin Watson is a consultant and co-founder of Watson Hall Ltd.

Colin has a production and process engineering background, but has
worked in information systems for fourteen years, concentrating
exclusively on web application development, security and compliance. His
work involves the management of application risk, building security and
privacy into systems development and keeping abreast of relevant
international legislation and standards. He has a particular interest in
creating user trust in web systems and the relationships between
security and usability.

Colin has spoken at several OWASP chapter meetings and conferences on
topics including web content accessibility guidelines, the Open Software
Assurance Maturity Model and AppSensor. He contributes to a number of
OWASP projects and is a member of the OWASP Global Industry Committee,
having been its chair for the last year. He writes a blog about web
security, usability and design under the pseudonym Clerkendweller.

He holds a BSc in Chemical Engineering, and an MSc in Computation from
the University of Oxford.

[Category:AppSec_DC_2010_Presentations](Category:AppSec_DC_2010_Presentations "wikilink")
[Category:OWASP_Conference_Presentations](Category:OWASP_Conference_Presentations "wikilink")