### Time

  - Date/Time: August,23 2016/6pm-7:30pm CST

<!-- end list -->

  - [TimeZone
    Converter](http://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/converted.html?iso=20160823T18&p1=24&p2=179&p3=224&p4=152&p5=37&p6=37&p7=0)

### Location

**Teleconference Information:**

<https://www3.gotomeeting.com/join/861328838>

[International Toll Free Calling
Information](International_Toll_Free_Calling_Information "wikilink")

### Attendance Tracker

**[Board Meeting Attendance
Tracker](https://docs.google.com/a/owasp.org/spreadsheet/ccc?key=0ApZ9zE0hx0LNdG5uRzNYZE8ycDFabnBWNkU4SFpwREE)**

### Notice of Recording

  - Notice to all attendees - board meetings are recorded and publicly
    available as of March, 2013
  - Joining the call acknowledges your awareness of recording and
    consent to be recorded and public dissemination of the recording.
  - [Meeting
    Recording](https://drive.google.com/a/owasp.org/file/d/0B0yxedKRQADiUHh5d1V2cHZwTVE/view?usp=sharing)

### Meeting Minutes

  -

      -
        \- [July 27, 2016 Meeting
        Minutes](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1vGtDOkRKD_NcL29p5__etthCePwdLYrXNQOIBpo-gCw/edit)

# Reading Material

***It is a requirement as a board member to fully read all material
prior to the start of the meeting***

  - [AppSec USA 2016 Report as of August 16, 2016 (private link
    available to Board
    only)](https://docs.google.com/document/d/19r7GC5kQPKFCLKts1n8egeGXihicPCoeqFbSPQp-604/edit)

<!-- end list -->

  - July financial package

<!-- end list -->

  -

      -
        \-
        ![2016_07_OWASP_July_Financial_Report_submitted_8.18.16.xlsx](2016_07_OWASP_July_Financial_Report_submitted_8.18.16.xlsx
        "2016_07_OWASP_July_Financial_Report_submitted_8.18.16.xlsx")
        \-
        ![7.16_YTD_US_P%26L_vs_Bud.pdf](7.16_YTD_US_P%26L_vs_Bud.pdf
        "7.16_YTD_US_P%26L_vs_Bud.pdf")
        \- ![7.16_US_BS.pdf](7.16_US_BS.pdf "7.16_US_BS.pdf")
        \- ![7.16_APSEC_EU_P\&L.pdf](7.16_APSEC_EU_P&L.pdf
        "7.16_APSEC_EU_P&L.pdf")

# Meeting Agenda

## Call to Order /OWASP Mission

  - Administrative: List of attendees and Agenda bashing (only if
    last-minute changes to the agenda are needed) (5 min)

## Reports

### Chair's Report - Matt Konda

  - Staff OKR
  - Staff meetings
  - Bill payments / Taxes / Contract Approvals (Many)
  - Thinking size and growing the sponsor space for AppSecUSA
  - Pursuing software dev companies to be sponsors, connecting
    recruiting arms to recruiting event
  - AppSecUSA Developer Summit

### Vice Chair's Report - Josh Sokol

  - I've got nothing major to report here so let's save the time for
    some of the bigger discussions that we need to have.

### Treasurer Report - Andrew van der Stock

Tom Pappas reports:

  - The combined P\&L vs Bud is $59K ahead of bud for Net income YTD (
    US + EU $17K vs Bud of -$42K for a plus $59K YTD)
  - As of the end of July 2016, we had combined cash balances of
    $1,073,853 (which does not include the $225,582 Paypal transfer on
    8.15.16 for APSEC EU) which a little more than $90K less than the
    combined balance at this time last year of $1,164,156. However if
    the Paypal transfer had taken place on time in July that would have
    added another $225K so we would have been $135K ahead year over
    year.
  - Chapter balances decreased over $7K from $728.9K in June to $721.8K
  - When that is taken out of the cash balance it leaves us with $352K (
    again had the $225K come in on time the Oper bal would have been
    $577K) vs the $407K we had at the end of June 2016, and dividing
    that by the Avg Ops spend it gives us 3.99 months( which is below
    the 4.56 months, at 6.30.16, but again had the $225K come in on
    time, it would have been 6.56 months), of Ops reserve exclusive of
    the event expenses, which is much better than the 2.85 months we had
    at the end of May
  - In the Cash forecast I have made some notations in red as the Budget
    is for the combined entity so I have added in the APSEC EU Revenue
    and expense as well as I have added a tab for the APSEC EU P\&L as
    of 7.31.16
  - I have also added tabs for YTD P\&L and BS details in both of the
    Close pkgs
  - In addition I have included PDF’s to be put up on the web site of
    the BS , P\&L and APSEC P\&L \[added in financial reports below -
    ajv\]"

At the moment, things are both good and concerning:

**Good** - we have $225k USD more than we thought by regaining access to
our PayPal account, sweeping funds from AppSec EU into our bank account
during August. This will be reflected in August's numbers, which are due
in our October face to face Board meeting. This makes a decision around
hiring a replacement Executive Director possible. I personally would be
comfortable if we spend a great deal of time finding the right person,
and hiring towards the end of the year to make sure we understand where
AppSec USA settles. Which leads me to...

**Concerning** - AppSec USA training is off target due to a website
error that stops people registering (\!), and as of last week we are
behind all conferences but 2012's, which is just not where we need to
be, as we budgetted for a larger conference, and booked accordingly. We
will get an update from Laura during the Board meeting, and hopefully we
can take sufficient corrective action to turn a (hopefully large) profit
this time around.

I'm also heartened that for the first time in a long time, chapters are
spending more than they take in. However, we have had several issues
with chapters asking for all sorts of payments, such as one chapter who
had nothing in their chapter funds. I approved that expense this one
time, but I've asked Tiffany to keep on top of these expenses as we are
not a cash piñata to be tapped with a stick every time someone wants
money. Additionally, I've been watching chapters looking to pay
expenses. One area for improvement is that we should ask all chapters
who submit expenses that they are branded only as OWASP, and not a
combined meeting (like "Cyber security meetup" or "ISSA and OWASP
meetup"). We can address individual chapters who do have combined
meetings as a proper co-marketing arrangement, so that OWASP contributes
as much as all the other involved organisations.

### Chapters - Michael Coates

## Financial information

  - July financial package

<!-- end list -->

  -

      -
        \-
        ![2016_07_OWASP_July_Financial_Report_submitted_8.18.16.xlsx](2016_07_OWASP_July_Financial_Report_submitted_8.18.16.xlsx
        "2016_07_OWASP_July_Financial_Report_submitted_8.18.16.xlsx")
        \-
        ![7.16_YTD_US_P%26L_vs_Bud.pdf](7.16_YTD_US_P%26L_vs_Bud.pdf
        "7.16_YTD_US_P%26L_vs_Bud.pdf")
        \- ![7.16_US_BS.pdf](7.16_US_BS.pdf "7.16_US_BS.pdf")
        \- ![7.16_APSEC_EU_P\&L.pdf](7.16_APSEC_EU_P&L.pdf
        "7.16_APSEC_EU_P&L.pdf")

### Secretary Report -Tobias Gondrom

### Governance report

### Updated from Members at Large - Tom Brennan, Michael Coates, and Tobias Gondrom

  - Coates - Chapters

<!-- end list -->

  - Carter - Governance

<!-- end list -->

  - Brennan - Projects

## Staff Reports

  - Director/Operations Update (Kate) - TBA
      - Financial Update - Andrew/Tom - See above
      - [Conference Manager
        Report](https://docs.google.com/a/owasp.org/document/d/195QybBHpWhYxXQ5Q6ydAN08AQr-qaGVKZWYyXaUmktU/edit?usp=sharing)
        and [AppSec USA 2016
        Report 08/23](https://drive.google.com/a/owasp.org/file/d/0BxOGWXgQrDndX2FvTEVydVh3YWc/view?usp=sharing)
        - Laura Grau
      - [Project Coordinator
        Update](https://docs.google.com/a/owasp.org/presentation/d/16III5sOo06KLyjdG2HEa7cA8hOSf9SKsuWbzbgD467s/edit?usp=sharing)
        - Claudia Casanovas & Matt Tesauro
      - [Community Initiative
        Reports](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1-4fIJfiLa8l02Hf1XBMqRYEiY2z6g4qwln-_ZLQ6GIs/edit)
        - Tiffany Long - TBA
      - [Membership
        Update](https://www.owasp.org/index.php/July_2016_Membership_Report)
        - Kelly Santalucia
      - IT Update - TBA - TBA

## Old Business

All active board proposals are listed
[here](https://drive.google.com/folderview?id=0BxSfMVkfLvslVXdvUFV3NkxucWc&usp=sharing)

  - Co-Marketing Agreements with other conferences

<!-- end list -->

  -

      -
        \-
        <https://www.owasp.org/index.php/Owasp_Conference_Management_System>
        \-
        <https://www.owasp.org/index.php/Category:OWASP_AppSec_Conference>

<!-- end list -->

  - Motion to invest a portion of unused funds in a ladder CD
    arrangement

<!-- end list -->

  -

      -
        \-
        <https://docs.google.com/document/d/1cZOMYzaRnWW_oQd4ON7kBNQcmlx3V4u33Szm8jH2cgU/edit#>

<!-- end list -->

  - Motion to approve changes to FY17 membership rates

<!-- end list -->

  -

      -
        \-
        <https://docs.google.com/a/owasp.org/document/d/1RBy7yRl-qVo49lDL1JeKmhwLElcazrJ7tY4OO5Wwb6U/edit?usp=sharing>

<!-- end list -->

  - Motion to establish a pay anything membership class, eliminate
    honorary membership and establish an annual Paul Ritchie Memorial
    Award

<!-- end list -->

  -

      -
        \-
        <https://docs.google.com/a/owasp.org/document/d/1GTcff47NFDgFCnnFTvaEehdecc-TU2PWjAqc9x470Vw/edit?usp=sharing>

<!-- end list -->

  - Motion to create an OWASP open training platform

<!-- end list -->

  -

      -
        \-
        <https://docs.google.com/document/d/1dZ-6eJyNj5iiTTo9AS5NC77PYwOF0D9aTHz8dmcJGJ0/edit#>

## New Business

  - AppSec USA - Update from Laura

Please go over the last status update from Laura in the reading
material, and see for yourselves where we are at in terms of
registrations. This last week, registrants paying for their tickets
couldn't register for training. Now, I only see 9 training classes,
which considering the outstanding success of training profitability in
AppSec EU, is going to result in a disappointing profitability for this
event. I would like to understand our status as of today, what we can do
to fix the registration issue for those 260+ who bought a ticket, but
couldn't buy training classes, what we can do to promote the event, and
what assistance we can provide the organisers to make this a great
event.

  - \[Johanna Curiel\] Discussion on the Sooryen report

Does it comply with it was requested and next steps with regards the
wiki and OWASP content

  - Projects, Funding and Iran - Matt Tesauro & Claudia Casanovas

We have several projects with leaders or co-leaders located in Iran.
This makes funding those projects problematic due to the OWASP
Foundation being a US charity and the economic sanctions imposed by the
US. For background, see the [US Dept of State Iran Sanction
site](http://www.state.gov/e/eb/tfs/spi/iran/index.htm). Details of the
projects in question are in the Projects Report for this month,
[slide 5](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/16III5sOo06KLyjdG2HEa7cA8hOSf9SKsuWbzbgD467s/edit?ts=57bc81b8#slide=id.g112855a4f6_0_14).
Since any funding of activities in Iran represents a risk to the
Foundation, the staff is asking for the board to determine how the
Foundation will interact with any community members or project leaders
which are located in Iran.

## Action Items

## Announcements

## Adjournment

  - Next meeting date/time:
    [July 27th](https://www.owasp.org/index.php?title=July_27,_2016)

## Motion to close meeting