## Background

The challenge of identifying the “top” web application vulnerabilities
is a virtually impossible task. There is not even widespread agreement
on exactly what is included in the term “web application security.” Some
have argued that we should focus only on security issues that affect
developers writing custom web application code. Others have argued for a
more expansive definition that covers the entire application layer,
including libraries, server configuration, and application layer
protocols. In the hopes of addressing the most serious risks facing
organizations, we have decided to give a relatively broad interpretation
to web application security, while still keeping clear of network and
infrastructure security issues.

Another challenge to this effort is that each specific vulnerability is
unique to a particular organization’s website. There would be little
point in calling out specific vulnerabilities in the web applications of
individual organizations, especially since they are hopefully fixed soon
after a large audience knows of their existence. Therefore, we have
chosen to focus on the top classes, types, or categories of web
application vulnerabilities.

In the first version of this document, we decided to classify a wide
range of web application problems into meaningful categories. We studied
a variety of vulnerability classification schemes and came up with a set
of categories. Factors that characterize a good vulnerability category
include whether the flaws are closely related, can be addressed with
similar countermeasures, and frequently occur in typical web application
architectures. In this version we are introducing a refined scheme. This
has been developed with our continued work on the OASISWAS technical
committee in which we will be describing a Thesaurus of issues from
which security researchers can describe signatures in an XML format.

To choose the top ten from a large list of candidates has its own set of
difficulties. There are simply no reliable sources of statistics about
web application security problems. In the future, we would like to
gather statistics about the frequency of certain flaws in web
application code and use those metrics to help prioritize the top ten.
However, for a number of reasons, this sort of measurement is not likely
to occur in the near future.

We recognize that there is no “right” answer for which vulnerability
categories should be in the top ten. Each organization will have to
think about the risk to their organization based on the likelihood of
having one of these flaws and the specific consequences to their
enterprise. In the meantime, we put this list forward as a set of
problems that represent a significant amount of risk to a broad array of
organizations. The top ten themselves are not in any particular order,
as it would be almost impossible to determine which of them represents
the most aggregate risk.

The OWASP Top Ten project is an ongoing effort to make information about
key web application security flaws available to a wide audience. We
expect to update this document annually based on discussion on the OWASP
mailing lists and feedbackto topten@owasp.org.

__NOEDITSECTION__

[Category:OWASP Top Ten
Project](Category:OWASP_Top_Ten_Project "wikilink")