2012 BASC: [Home](2012_BASC_Homepage "wikilink")
[Agenda](2012_BASC_Agenda "wikilink")
[Presentations](2012_BASC_Presentations "wikilink")
[Speakers](2012_BASC_Speakers "wikilink")

## Call for Papers

The [OWASP Boston chapter](Boston "wikilink") would like to announce a
call for papers for the 2012 Boston Application Security Conference
(BASC) on Saturday, October 13th at [Microsoft New England Research and
Development Center (NERD)](http://microsoftcambridge.com) in Cambridge
MA.

This will be a free, one day informal conference, aimed at increasing
awareness and knowledge of web and mobile application security in the
greater Boston area. You can find more information about the BASC at
[basc2012.org](2012_BASC_Homepage "wikilink").

The BASC 2012 will have two parallel tracks. Track 1 will focus on the
basics of application security and the practical uses of application
security tools and techniques. Track 2 will focus on more advanced
application security topics including research on application security.

The following are some topics we have received requests for: OWASP top
10, mobile browser app security, how to use the Metasploit toolkit,
OWASP ESAPI, in depth SQL Injection and Cross Site Scripting.

Each presentation will be 50 minutes which should include any time for
Q\&A.

One 50 minute session will be devoted to 3 lightning talks of 15 minutes
each.

We hope to attract people who are new to application security as well as
thought leaders who are experienced in application security. We expect
the attendees to include application security professionals,
professional software developers, software quality engineers, computer
science students, security software vendors and others.

## Process

If you would like to present at the BASC, please email an abstract of
your presentation to the program committee at <cfp@basc2012.org> For
further information, see the [OWASP Speaker
Agreement](Speaker_Agreement "wikilink").