![<File:Boston-Banner-468x60.gif>](Boston-Banner-468x60.gif
"File:Boston-Banner-468x60.gif") 2016 BASC:
[Home](2016_BASC_Homepage "wikilink")

The [OWASP Boston chapter](Boston "wikilink") would like to announce a
call for papers for the Boston Application Security Conference 2016 on
October 1, 2016. This our sixth annual conference.

The OWASP BASC (Boston Application Security Conference) will be a free,
one day, informal conference, aimed at increasing awareness and
knowledge of application security in the greater Boston area. While many
of the presentations will cover state-of-the-art application security
concepts, the BASC is intended to appeal to a wide range of attendees.
Application security professionals, professional software developers,
software quality engineers, computer science students, and security
software vendors will come to the BASC to learn, interact and hopefully
enjoy themselves at the same time. We encourage local students, security
professionals and academics to present papers as a way to gain exposure
and experience in presenting at security conferences.

We expect over 200 attendees this year. Publicity includes the OWASP
Boston wiki site (run by OWASP Foundation), OWASP Boston Meetup, OWASP
Boston Linkedin group, OWASP Boston mailing list, Eventbrite and
Twitter.

## Past conference presentations

[2015 BASC Presentations](2015_BASC_Presentations "wikilink") · [2014
BASC Presentations](2014_BASC_Presentations "wikilink") · [2012 BASC
Presentations](2012_BASC_Presentations "wikilink") · [2011 BASC
Presentations](2011_BASC_Presentations "wikilink") · [2010 BASC
Presentations](2010_BASC_Presentations "wikilink")

## Guidelines

Last year, there were two tracks:

Track 1 - Basic/Current Application Security

Track 2 - Future / Advanced / New Research in Application security.

Each presentation will be 50 minutes.

We attract both people who are new to application security as well as
people who are experienced in application security.

We encourage first time presenters: students, researchers, working
application security folks etc. to submit presentations.

## Some Suggested Topics

<div style="column-count:3;-moz-column-count:3;-webkit-column-count:3">

  - Mobile app security, forensics

<!-- end list -->

  - Javascript servers, apps, frameworks: Node.js, Angular

<!-- end list -->

  - Language Framework (in)security – Hibernate, Grails, Ruby etc.

<!-- end list -->

  - Security for NFC, Bluetooth LE apps

<!-- end list -->

  - Google Glass app security

<!-- end list -->

  - OWASP ESAPI

<!-- end list -->

  - Measurable security - advanced threat modelling

<!-- end list -->

  - Web API security REST, JSON

<!-- end list -->

  - Application Architecture security

<!-- end list -->

  - Web security testing in a DevOps organization

<!-- end list -->

  - Building web app security expertise in engineering teams

<!-- end list -->

  - Conducting lightweight threat modeling

<!-- end list -->

  - Vulnerability Management - Process & Tools

<!-- end list -->

  - Developing your own web app security development standard

<!-- end list -->

  - Security test automation with OWASP ZAP and Zest scripting language

<!-- end list -->

  - Authentication & Enterprise Web Applications (incl. Federation, 2
    Factor Auth, SSO)

<!-- end list -->

  - Open Source Identity Management

<!-- end list -->

  - Open Source Static Analysis

<!-- end list -->

  - Security test automation with OWASP ZAP and Zest scripting language

<!-- end list -->

  - Security Unit testing with Selenium

<!-- end list -->

  - Effective static code analysis tools

</div>

## Submit

Please use [this form](http://goo.gl/forms/2cwPkPGIC9H8niV32) to submit
your proposal.

If you have any questions, please email <boston@owasp.org>.