# Bay Area Chapter Board

Interested in finding out more? Will contact you with information on the
first in person chapter board discussion in San Francisco

Submit your info here: <https://goo.gl/forms/ScPCPrlDiQaUZ6cs2>

# Chapter Meetings

Bay Area OWASP Chapter meetings are posted on our meetup\!

Please visit <http://www.meetup.com/Bay-Area-OWASP/> for all chapter
event information.

## Our next event

We hold regular events across the OWASP Bay Area.

Check out our meetup page for upcoming events:
\[<http://www.meetup.com/Bay-Area-OWASP/events/226890416/>? More info on
meetup.com\]

![Highres_469396345.jpg](Highres_469396345.jpg "Highres_469396345.jpg")

![OWASP_Cali.jpg](OWASP_Cali.jpg "OWASP_Cali.jpg")

![March_2018.jpg](March_2018.jpg "March_2018.jpg")

![<File:OWASP-Bay-Area-Aug-2014.png>](OWASP-Bay-Area-Aug-2014.png
"File:OWASP-Bay-Area-Aug-2014.png")

Picture is @BenHagen talking about cloud security and applications

# About OWASP Bay Area Chapter

## Geographic Area of Bay Area Chapter

The 'Bay Area' is actually the San Francisco Bay Area in California,
which is near other large towns that are across the bay from San
Francisco such as Berkeley and Oakland, and south of San Francisco are
San Mateo, Palo Alto, and the whole San Jose area. Currently, the Bay
Area OWASP Chapter covers this whole geographic region.

## Become a Presenter

Submit your talk now for an upcoming OWASP Bay Area Chapter Meeting

[Link to
submit](https://docs.google.com/a/owasp.org/forms/d/1ImmfY5KtSILjIym1uToOzSmT2Xv58bVzfxUPDAAn9-c/viewform)

### Notes about OWASP presentations

OWASP presentations are geared for a technical audience. We are
particularly interested in new approaches to tackling application
security problems, defensive techniques for new technology in the
application security space and lessons learned from developers and
security professionals tackling application security. Please consider a
wide breadth of topic areas and we can discuss if they should be
tailored in a particular direction for the OWASP audience.

OWASP chapter presentations must not be sales pitches and must adhere to
a vendor neutral approach to the topic.

## Chapter Meetings

[OWASP Bay Area Meetup](http://www.meetup.com/Bay-Area-OWASP/) - All
events can be found here

### About Presentation Events

Presentation events will feature 1 or more speakers discussing
application security. These events will include a networking session,
with drinks and food, before and after the event.

### About OWASP Social Hours

The purpose of the OWASP social gathering is:

  - Informal security chat - the benefits of "hallway con" and security
    talk with others in the industry
  - Networking - meet other people in the field and industry
  - After work drinks - a nice break after a long work day

Note: These events won't have any formal presentations. They're meant to
be social gatherings to meet others in the industry and chat about
security. Check our quarterly OWASP Bay Area schedule for the security
presentation events. <https://www.owasp.org/index.php/Bay_Area>

Is your organization interested in hosting an OWASP social hour in the
bay area (San Francisco, South Bay, East Bay)? Contact
travis.mcpeak@owasp.org

## Past Events

### **2018 Past Events**

**March 2018 - AppDynamics**

• 6:30 - Doors open

• 7:00-7:30 - HUNT: Data Driven Web Hacking & Manual Testing (JP
Villanueva)

• 7:35-8:05 - Detecting suspicious activity: Time-based analysis of DNS
traffic (Barak Raz)

• 8:05-9:00 - Networking

**March 2018 - Intuit**

• 6:30 - Doors open

• 7:00-7:30 New Attacks Against Unencrypted Traffic (Travis Hassloch)

• 7:35-8:05 - "Offensive Defense" - The best defense is a good offense
(Stephan Chenette)

• 8:05-9:00 - Networking

**\*Special Event\* - February 2018 - HackerOne**

Hacker Thursday - Mobile Application Security

**\*Special Event\* - January 2018 - CircleCI**

Hacker Thursday - Application Security Automation with OWASP ZAP 2.7.0

**January 2018 - Smyte**

• 6:30 - Doors open

• 6:45 - 6:55 News Bites (Lina)

• 7:00-7:30 - Simple is Better: Fighting Online Abuse with Rate Limiter

• 7:35-8:05 - Reporter -\> P.I. -\> Security Engineer - How Curiosity
Led to an InfoSec Career (Tad Whitaker)

• 8:10-8:40 - XXE Vulnerabilities: From the Beginning Till Now (Ivan
Novikov)

• 8:40-9:00 - Networking

### **2017 Past Events**

**\*Special Event\* - December 2017 - Shape Security**

Hacker Thursday - Unorthodox Security Assessment: OSINT for Intelligent
Attacks

Nutan Kumar Panda

**December 2017 - Contrast Security**

• 6:30 - Doors open

• 6:45-7:00 - Welcome

• 7:00-8:00 - Three Ways of Security (Jeff Williams)

• 8:00-9:00 - Networking and Giveaways\!

**November 2017 - Credit Karma**

• 6:30 - Doors open

• 6:45-7:00 - News with Hardeep Singh

• 7:00-7:30 - Three Keys for SecDevOps Success (Frank Kim)

• 7:35-8:05 - TLS for Microservices (Michael Cline)

• 8:05-9:00 - Networking

**\*Special Event\* - November 2017 - Credit Karma**

Hacker Thursdays: Learn secure coding with a live tournament

Stephen Allor

**\*Special Event\* - October 2017 - ShieldX Networks**

Hacker Thursdays:- Dissecting Injection vulnerabilities

Matt Torbin

**September 2017 - Distil Networks**

• 6:30 Doors Open

• 6:45 - 7:15 "The Great Bot Gift Card Heist" - Kevin Bottomley

• 7:20 - 7:50 "Scaling Application Security with DevSecOps" - Abhay
Bhargav

• 7:55 - 8:25 "The Struts Vulnerability" - Prashant Venkatesh

• 8:25 - 9:00 Networking

• 9 Doors Close

**September 2017 - Intuit**

• 6:30 Doors Open

• 6:45 - 7:15 "Making Vulnerability Management Less Painful with OWASP
DefectDojo" - Greg Anderson

• 7:20 - 7:50 "Crikey\! Pirates Be Lurkin' at the Single Sign-On
Watering Hole" - Mike Hunter

• 7:55 - 8:25 "There’s a new sheriff in town; dynamic security group
recommendations with Grouper and Dredge" - Kevin Glisson

• 8:25 - 9:00 Networking

• 9 Doors Close

**September 2017 - Lending Club**

• 6:30 Doors Open

• 6:45 - 7:25 "Introducing the OWASP Game Security Framework" - Daniel
Miessler

• 7:30 - 8:10 "Motherhood, Mental Health, and a Career in CyberSecurity"
- Caroline Wong

• 8:10 - 9 Networking

• 9 Doors Close

**\*Special Event\* - September 2017 - Lending Club**

Web Application Penetration Basics

Ty Sbano

**June 2017 - Lending Club**

• 6:30 Doors Open

• 6:45 - 7:25 "Introducing the OWASP Game Security Framework" - Daniel
Miessler

• 7:30 - 8:10 "Motherhood, Mental Health, and a Career in CyberSecurity"
- Caroline Wong

• 8:10 - 9 Networking

• 9 Doors Close

**May 2017 - Netflix (videos on youtube)**

• 6:30 Doors Open

• 6:45 - 7:15 "All you email are belong to us: exploiting vulnerable
email clients via domain name collision" - Ilya Nesterov and Maxim
Goncharov

• 7:20 - 7:40 "Attacking & Defending DevOps" - Patrick Thomas

• 7:45 - 8:05 "LISA - Location Independent Security Approach" - Bryan
Zimmer

• 8:05 - 9 Networking and Netflix OSS expo

• 9 Doors Close

**April 2017 - Pandora (videos on youtube)**

• 6:30 Doors Open

• 6:45 - 7:30 "Effective AppSec Metrics" - Caroline Wong

• 7:35 - 8:20 "IoT Exploitation 101" - Aditya Gupta

• 8:25 - 9:00 Networking

• 9:00 Doors Close

**March 2017 (2) - Ebay**

• 6:30 Doors Open

• 6:45 - 7:15 "Cracking Financial Systems" - John Menerick

• 7:20 - 7:50 "Hacking Mainframes" - Philip Young

• 7:55 - 8:25 "Hacking Smart Door Locks with Bluetooth Relay Attacks" -
Mike Ryan

• 8:25 - 9 Networking

• 9 Doors Close

**March 2017 - NetSpi**

• 6:30 Doors Open

• 6:45 - 7:15 "Cracking Financial Systems" - John Menerick

• 7:20 - 7:50 "SQL Server Security" - Scott Sutherland

• 7:50 - 9 Networking

• 9 Doors Close

**January 2017 (2) - Synack**

• 6:30 Doors Open

• 6:45 - 7:30 Talk 1

Robert Wood - Bringing Red Teaming to the Board Room

• 7:45 - 8:30 Panel Discussions

• 8:30+ Networking

• 9 Doors Close

**January 2017 - Bleacher Report**

• 6:30 Doors Open

• 6:45 - 7:30 Talk 1

Robert Wood - Bringing Red Teaming to the Board Room

• 7:45 - 8:30 Talk 2

Rob Witoff - Security Automation With Immutable Infrastructure

• 8:30+ Networking

• 9 Doors Close

### **2016 Past Events**

**November (2) 2016 - Linkedin**

• 6:30 Doors Open

• 6:45 - 7:30 Talk 1 (Rohit Pitke, Mukul Khullar - A walkthrough on AWS
Security Pitfalls)

• 7:45 - 8:30 Talk 2 (Scott Behrens - Cleaning Your Applications' Dirty
Laundry With Scumblr )

• 8:30+ Networking

**November 2016 - Salesforce**

• 6:30 Doors Open

• 6:45 - 7:30 Talk 1 -Will Bengston and Travis McPeak - Jumpstart a
Bandit Program in Your Organization

• 7:45 - 8:30 Talk 2 - Kuba Sendor (@jsendor), Yelp - "Slicing Apples
with Ninja Sword: Fighting Malware at the Corporate Level"

**September 2016 - Twitter**

• 6:30 Doors Open

• 6:45 - 7:30 Talk 1 - Ron Hamilton, Performance Technology Partners
(PTP)

• 7:45 - 8:30 Talk 2 - Luca Carettoni, LinkedIn Defending against Java
Deserialization Vulnerabilities

**June 2016 - Visa**

6:30 - Doors Open

6:45 - Talk 1 - Secure by Default Stack: Web Application Security
Infrastructure - Pritam Mungse, Visa

7:30 - Break

7:40 - Talk 2 - Research on HTTPS error storage policies, Adrienne
Porter Felt, Google

8:30 - Networking

**May 2016 - Thoughtworks**

• 6:30 Doors Open

• 6:45-7:45 Chris Steipp,  Security Team - Wikimedia (How the Wikimedia
Foundation promotes security in the open-source projects)

• 7:50 - 8:20 Michael Coates, TISO at Twitter & Kyle Randolph, Principal
Security Engineer at Optimizely - Strategies for growing your AppSec
team & influence

• 8:20+ Networking

**April 2016 - Lending Club**

6:30- Doors Open

6:40 - 7:15 - Joe Rozner, Richard Meester,  Prevoty - Sinking Your Hooks
in Applications (from AppSecUSA 2015)

7:20 - 7:55 - Martin Vigo, Salesforce - Attacks on LastPass (from
BlackHat 2015)

8:00 - 8:25 - Russell Sherman and Jonathan Carter, Lending Club
–Adventures in Running Your Own CTF

**February 2016 - RiskIQ**

### 2015 Past Events

OWASP AppSecUSA was held in San Francisco in September, 2015 - the
biggest OWASP conference to date\!

Chapter meetings can be found on the [meetup
page](http://www.meetup.com/Bay-Area-OWASP/)

### 2014 Past Events

  - December 2014 - San Francisco @ Mozilla
      - OWASP Chapter Meeting in San Francisco hosted by
        [Mozilla](https://mozilla.org)
      - Jasvir Nagra, Google - Firing Bots at Bugs
      - Sergey Shekyan & Bei Zhang, Shape Security - Headless Browsers
        Hide and Seek
  - August 2014 - San Francisco @ Lookout
      - OWASP Chapter Meeting in San Francisco hosted by
        [Lookout](https://Lookout.com/)
      - Paul McMillan from Nebula [@PaulM](https://twitter.com/PaulM) -
        Attacking the Internet of Things using Time
      - Ben Hagen from Netflix [@BenHagen](https://twitter.com/enHagen)
        - Cloud Security at Scale and What it Means for Your Application
  - May 2014 - Redwood City @ Evernote
      - OWASP Chapter Meeting in Redwood City hosted by
        [Evernote](https://Evernote.com/)
      - Arshad Noor - CTO, StrongAuth
      - Rich Tener - Director of Security, Evernote
  - March 2014 - San Francisco @ Stripe
      - OWASP Social Hour in San Francisco - Wednesday, Mar 12, 2014
      - Hosted by [Stripe](https://stripe.com/)
  - Feb 2014 - San Jose @ Jillians
      - OWASP Developer Training & Social Hour - Monday 2/24/2013
      - Hosted by OWASP at Jillian's Billiards Club
  - Feb 2014 - Special Free Training Event
      - OWASP is hosting a special security boot camp for all RSA
        attendees and local developers. The training is recommended for
        developers who want to learn more about securing their code as
        well as security professionals who want to become acquainted
        with the latest web vulnerabilities.
      - Presented by Jim Manico and Eoin Keary, this intensive boot camp
        focuses on the most common web application security problems,
        including aspects of both the OWASP Top Ten and the MITRE Top
        25. The course will introduce and demonstrate application
        assessment techniques, illustrating how application
        vulnerabilities can be exploited so students really understand
        how to avoid introducing such vulnerabilities in their code and
        understand fixes.
  - Jan 2014 - San Jose @ F5
      - OWASP Social Hour in San Jose - Wednesday 1/22/2013
      - Hosted by [F5](http://www.f5.com/)

#### 2013 Past Events

  - Dec 2013 - San Francisco @ Twilio
      - OWASP Social Hour in San Francisco - Thursday 12/19/2013
      - Hosted by [Twilio](http://www.twilio.com/)
  - Nov 2013 - San Francisco @ LendingClub
      - OWASP Social Hour in Mountain View - Wednesday 11/6/13
      - Hosted by [LendingClub](https://www.lendingclub.com/)
  - Sept 2013 - Mt View @ Shape Security
      - OWASP Social Hour in Mountain View - Wednesday 9/25/13
      - Hosted by [Shape Security](http://www.shapesecurity.com/)
  - July 2013 - Berkeley @ University of Berkely
      - OWASP Presentation Meeting
      - An Empirical Study of Vulnerability Rewards Programs, Devdatta
        Akhawe
      - "Putting Your Robots to Work", Twitter Security Team

#### Older Events

[Bay Area Past Events](Bay_Area_Past_Events "wikilink")

## Bay Area Chapter Leaders

  - Travis McPeak - Chapter Leader
  - William Bengtson
  - Brendan Higgins
  - Aaron Sutter
  - Christian DeHoyos
  - Prashant Venkatesh
  - Leif Dreizler
  - Tad Whitaker
  - Astha Singhal
  - Michael Coates

# Stay In Touch

  - All events will be listed on this webpage
  - Keep in touch via twitter
    [@OWASPBayArea](https://twitter.com/OWASPBayArea) or on
    [Linkedin](https://www.linkedin.com/groups/OWASP-BayArea-6568682)
  - [Bay Area Mailing
    List](http://lists.owasp.org/mailman/listinfo/owasp-bayarea)

[Category:OWASP Chapter](Category:OWASP_Chapter "wikilink")
[Category:United States](Category:United_States "wikilink")
[Category:California](Category:California "wikilink")