April 2, 2013

Thanks to Kevin Babcock @ Box for hosting.

We had a wonderful evening discussing

secure development practices for deploying applications in the cloud.

Agenda:

6:00 - Social Half-Hour

6:30 - Welcome & Overview of OWASP Projects, Cory Scott & Guests

6:45 - Building Security from Scratch in the Cloud, Alex Stamos

`  `**[`Building``   ``Security``   ``from``   ``Scratch``   ``in``
 ``the``   ``Cloud,``   ``Alex``
 ``Stamos`](http://www.slideshare.net/astamos/building-cloud-security-from-scratch/)**

-----

January, 2013

Host: Mozilla

When: Tuesday, January 8, 2013 from 5:30 PM to 8:30 PM (PST)

Steaming live over air.mozilla.org

Remote & have questions? Join on Mozilla IRC and we'll ask them. Room
\#airmozilla

Details:

Securing iOS Applications, Blake Turrentine

8:30 - Adjourn

# August 20, 2012

### Sponsors

`  `**[`PayPal`](https://www.paypal.com/)**` - Provided meeting location`
`  `**[`WhiteHat``
 ``Security`](https://www.whitehatsec.com/)**` - Provided food and drinks`

### Location

`  PayPal Town Hall`
`  2161 N. First Street`
`  San Jose, CA 95131`

### Agenda

`  5:00pm - 5:20pm      Check in, socialize, eat pizza`
`  5:20pm - 5:30pm      Host:       Bil Corry (PayPal)              - Introduction`
`  5:30pm - 6:00pm      Speaker 1:  Jeff Hodges (PayPal)            - Internet Standards and Web Security `**[`PDF`](https://www.owasp.org/index.php/File:HodgesSteingruebl-InternetStandardsAndWebSecurity-2012-08-20.pdf)**
`  6:05pm - 6:45pm      Speaker 2:  Jim Manico (WhiteHat Security)  - Top 10 Defenses for Website Security `**[`PDF`](https://www.owasp.org/index.php/File:Top_Ten_Defenses_v4.1.pdf)**
`  6:50pm - 7:20pm      Speaker 3:  Elie Bursztein (Google)         – Preview of Latest Research `**`[deck``
 ``unavailable]`**
`  7:25pm - 7:45pm      Speaker 4:  David Lin-Shung Huang (CMU)     – Clickjacking: Attacks and Defenses `**[`PPT`](http://websec.sv.cmu.edu/clickjacking/clickjacking.pptx)**
`  7:45pm - 8:00pm      Wrap-up and announcements`

### RSVP

`  RSVP required to attend: `**<http://owaspbayarea2.eventbrite.com/>**

# June 14, 2012

Hosted by Cigital and Symantec, Location: the Symantec main cafeteria in
Mountain View at the following address:

Symantec Main Cafeteria, Building E 350 Ellis Street, Mountain View, CA
94043

The speakers were AJ Dexter and Carl Schwarcz.

AJ spoke about Mobile Apps and Mobile Payments Infrastructure

![<File:Mobile> Presentation for OWASP
SJC.pptx](Mobile_Presentation_for_OWASP_SJC.pptx
"File:Mobile Presentation for OWASP SJC.pptx")

Carl spoke about BSIMM – the Build Software In Maturity Model. This is
an open source tool, developed by Cigital and Fortify, by which
companies can measure their secure development maturity level based on
data from peer companies. The idea is to collect data from as many
companies as possible to advance a collective understanding about how
secure development is being done.

![<File:OWASP-BSIMM-061412.pdf>](OWASP-BSIMM-061412.pdf
"File:OWASP-BSIMM-061412.pdf")

-----

# March 14, 2012

Hosted by Astech Consulting Location: Chinese Historical Society of
America 965 Clay Street, San Francisco, CA 94108 <http://www.chsa.org/>

Presentations:

John Kinsella, Rebuilding for the Cloud - How cloud architecture can
improve application security

Slide Deck:
<http://www.slideshare.net/jlkinsel/rebuilding-for-the-cloud-how-cloud-architeture-can-improve-application-security>

Tin Zaw, Cucumber and friends: tools for security that matters

![<File:Cucumber-friends.pdf>](Cucumber-friends.pdf
"File:Cucumber-friends.pdf")

-----

From August through the end of year, 2011, there were 3 events, one at
PG\&E in downtown San Francisco, and another at a restaurant in the
financial district in San Francisco. But, the highlight of the autumnal
Bay Area OWASP events was this one, held on November 30:

# November 30, 2011

Stanford Campus, Alumni Center, Lane/Ladato rooms Directions:
<http://www.stanfordalumni.org/aboutsaa/alumni_center/directions.html>
Parking will be available on Galvez field right next to the center.
Agenda

5:30pm - Welcome

5:40pm - Jason Chan, Practical Cloud Security Slides

6:15pm - Luca Carettoni, From CVE-2010-0738 to the recent JBoss worm
Slides

6:50pm - David Fifield, Evading censorship with browser-based proxies
Slides

7:25pm - Abraham Kang, DOM-based XSS and output encoding Slides

You must RSVP at <http://owaspbayareanov2011.eventbrite.com/> prior to
attending, we need to know how many people are coming to make sure we
have the correct room sizing.

Jason Chan - Practical Cloud Security Over the past several years, there
has been much hand wringing and teeth gnashing related to public cloud
security. Because of this, many organizations have limited or delayed
their cloud usage. Faced with business and market imperatives that
demanded scale and elasticity that traditional data center architectures
could not provide, Netflix jumped head first into the public cloud two
years ago. As we continue to mature our environment, we’ve also begun
leveraging the benefits of the public cloud to enhance our security
posture and capabilities. This presentation will be a practical
examination of Netflix’s approach to cloud security. Topics covered
include: • Using public cloud automation and APIs to enhance security
visibility • Netflix’s “Security Monkey” tool for cloud security
monitoring and alerting • Inter-host reachability and connectivity
analysis for firewall policy evaluation and optimization • Netflix’s
model-driven architecture for securing and managingsystems and
applications • Call to action: Cloud Security Gap Analysis and Next
Steps

Luca Carettoni - From CVE-2010-0738 to the recent JBoss worm Being a
widely deployed enterprise application server, JBoss has always been a
juicy target for attackers. Security vulnerabilities and
misconfigurations in critical components, such as the infamous
JMX-console, can be exploited in order to execute arbitrary code and
harm the confidentiality, integrity and availability of the entire
system. Our quick journey through JBoss insecurity will start from the
analysis of a critical authentication bypass flaw to the recent JBoss
worm which affected numerous installations worldwide. This presentation
will also cover practical aspects on how to detect misconfigurations and
secure your application server.

David Fifield - Evading censorship with browser-based proxies Proxy
systems like Tor and VPNs can be used to get around Internet censorship
and access blocked resources, but what happens when the circumvention
system itself is blocked? A flash proxy is a miniature proxy that runs
in a web browser, that can be activated just by viewing a web page. Web
site visitors provide a large and constantly changing pool of proxy
addresses that are difficult to block. Even though each proxy may last
only seconds or minutes, it is possible to switch between them in a way
that makes web browsing more or less seamless. We will share details of
our flash proxy implementation and explain how to add a proxy to your
web page.

Abraham Kang - DOM-based XSS and output encoding An interactive
presentation that intends to turn all of the listeners of the
presentation into XSS experts and help them understand how to mitigate
XSS properly using output encoding. Previous Event

WHAT: OWASP Silicon Valley Chapter Meeting

WHEN: Thursday, August 25th, 2011 - From 6 PM to 8.30 PM

WHERE: Mozilla Foundation Offices - 650 Castro Street, Unit 300,
Mountain View , CA 94041

(right next to Starbucks)

REGISTER EARLY AS SEATING IS LIMITED

Please RSVP by registering at
<http://www.regonline.com/owaspsiliconvalleychaptermeeting>

Agenda:

`   6:00 PM - 6:30 PM .............Check-in, registration, networking`
`   6:30 PM – 6:35 PM ........... Welcome Remarks/Agenda - Mandeep Khera`
`   6:35 PM - 7:45 PM ............ Enabling Browser Security in Web Applications- Michael Coates, Mozilla`
`   7:45 PM – 8:30 PM…......... Blackhat spam SEO - Julien Sobrier, Zscaler `

SPONSORS: Special Thanks to our host and sponsor - Mozilla Foundation.
This is an archive page of all the Bay Area OWASP past events. The
chapter home is at [Bay Area](Bay_Area "wikilink").

-----

# July 1, 2010

OWASP Bay Area will host its next Application Security Summit at the SAP
Offices in Palo Alto on July 1st, 2010. As usual attendance is free and
food and beverages will be provided. This is an excellent event with
great speakers and a great opportunity to network with industry peers.
The event is open to the public; please forward this invite to your
colleagues and friends who are interested in computer and application
security.

We have an excellent line-up of speakers.

Please note that due to security issues, your must pre-register. Badges
will be ready for the registered attendees at the lobby where you will
check in.

**WHAT**: OWASP Bay Area Chapter - Application Security Summit

**WHEN**: Thursday, July 1st, 2010 - From 9 A.M. to 3.00 P.M.

**WHERE**: SAP Offices, Palo Alto - See below for directions


<u>**Venue and Directions:**</u>

3410 Hillview Ave, Palo Alto, Building 1 Executive Briefing Center (2nd
Floor)

Directions on SAP Labs Web Site. Also on the Event Registration Page.

Parking - You can park in the visitor parking or any of the open spaces
at any level of the parking lot.


REGISTER EARLY AS SEATING IS LIMITED

'''Please RSVP by registering at
<http://owaspbajuly2010.eventbrite.com/> '''

SPONSORS: [Appsec
Consulting](http://www.appsecconsulting.com/),[Cenzic](http://www.cenzic.com/),[Dasient](http://www.dasient.com/),
[SAP Labs](http://www.sap.com/usa/about/company/saplabs/index.epx)

## Agenda

<table>
<caption>Agenda</caption>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>8:45 AM - 9:00 AM<br />
</p></td>
<td><p>Check-in, registration, breakfast, networking<br />
</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>9:00 AM - 9:15 AM<br />
</p></td>
<td><p>Welcome Remarks and Overview of OWASP Bay Area - Mandeep Khera, Bay Area Chapter Leader - <embed src="OWASP_Mandeep_Khera_BA_July10.pdf" title="fig:Image:OWASP Mandeep Khera BA July10.pdf" /><br />
</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>9:15 AM - 10:00 AM<br />
</p></td>
<td><p>Drive By Downloads- How to Avoid Getting A Cap Popped in your App - Neil Daswani, Co-founder, Dasient- <embed src="OWASP_Dasient_7_1_10.pdf" title="fig:Image:OWASP Dasient 7 1 10.pdf" /><br />
</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>10:00 AM - 10:45 AM<br />
</p></td>
<td><p>Building Secure Web Applications In a Cloud Services Environment - Misha Logvinov, VP of Online Operations, IronKey‎ and Alex Bello, Director of Technical Operations and Product Security, IronKey- <embed src="OWASP-Building-Secure-Web-Apps-070110.pdf" title="fig:Image:OWASP-Building-Secure-Web-Apps-070110.pdf" /><br />
</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>10:45 AM - 11:15 AM<br />
</p></td>
<td><p>Networking Break, refreshments<br />
</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>11:15 AM - Noon<br />
</p></td>
<td><p>Cloudy with a Chance of Hack - Lars Ewe, CTO and VP of Engineering, Cenzic‎- <embed src="OWASP_Cloudy_with_a_chance_of_hack.pdf" title="fig:Image:OWASP Cloudy with a chance of hack.pdf" /><br />
</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Noon - 1:30<br />
</p></td>
<td><p>Networking Lunch<br />
</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>1:30 PM - 2:15 PM<br />
</p></td>
<td><p>Application Security Deployment Tradeoffs - Anoop Reddy, Senior Manager, Products, Citrix - <embed src="OWASP-July-Anoop.pdf" title="fig:Image:OWASP-July-Anoop.pdf" /><br />
</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>2:15 PM - 3:00 PM<br />
</p></td>
<td><p>MashUp SSL - Extending SSL for Security Mashups - Siddharth Bajaj, Principal Engineer, Verisign - <embed src="MashSSL_OWASP_Presentation_june2010.pdf" title="fig:Image:MashSSL OWASP Presentation june2010.pdf" /><br />
</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p><br />
</p></td>
<td><p><br />
</p></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>


Detailed Abstracts and Speaker Bios

**Drive By Downloads: How To Avoid Getting A Cap Popped In Your
App: **Which browser do you claim? What color is your screen-saver? It
is a world wide hood out there, don’t let yourself become the next
victim of a drive by… a drive by download. Email attachments have become
synonymous with computer viruses and consumers have become accustom to
questioning the legitimacy of email touting male enhancement drugs and
lottery winnings. This means hackers are having to come up with new ways
to distribute malware. Today, just by loading an infected webpage of
from a legitimate website, a virus can be downloaded without any other
interaction and will often go undetected. Once the virus is on a PC,
hackers can access the computer remotely and steal sensitive information
like banking passwords, send out spam or install more malicious
executables.

In this talk, we describe in technical detail the "anatomy of a modern
web-based malware attack." Web-based malware attacks have evolved
significantly over the past 4 years. We present the state-of-the-art in
web-based malware attacks and describe how the techniques used have
evolved over time. '''
Bio - '''Neil Daswani is a co-founder of Dasient, Inc., a security
company backed by some of the most influential investors in Silicon
Valley and New York. In the past, Neil has served in a variety of
research, development, teaching, and managerial roles at Google,
Stanford University, DoCoMo USA Labs, Yodlee, and Bellcore (now
Telcordia Technologies). While at Stanford, Neil co-founded the Stanford
Center Professional Development (SCPD) Security Certification Program
(http://proed.stanford.edu/?security). He has published extensively,
frequently gives talks at industry and academic conferences, and has
been granted several U.S. patents. He received a Ph.D. and a master's in
computer science from Stanford University, and earned a bachelor's in
computer science with honors with distinction from Columbia University.
Neil is also the lead author of "Foundations of Security: What Every
Programmer Needs To Know" (published by Apress; ISBN 1590597842;
<http://tinyurl.com/33xs6g>. More information about Neil is available at
<http://www.neildaswani.com>.


'''Building Secure Web Applications: *' This presentation will go over
core principles involved in launching secure web applications and
effectively managing security in a cloud services environment. We will
discuss best practices for implementing security programs, review
examples of things done right and wrong, and address specific steps
required for creating and maintaining a sustainable security framework
for your web applications.
*'Bio '''- Misha Logvinov is the Vice President of Online Operations at
IronKey. In this position, Mr. Logvinov and his team are responsible for
designing, implementing and supporting a highly-scalable mission
critical infrastructure for IronKey's next-generation security products
and services. Mr. Logvinov brings to IronKey over a decade of management
experience in information technology, operations and security.
Throughout his career, he has been responsible for implementing hundreds
of customer solutions, supporting millions of online users, managing
complex backoffice applications and building some of the world's most
secure online service environments. Prior to IronKey, Mr. Logvinov spent
six years at Yodlee, one of the leading online financial service
providers. He held various management roles during his tenure, most
recently, as Director of Operations Delivery. Mr. Logvinov's earlier
experiences included IT management at Outcome, Inc. and INTERSHOP
Communications. Mr. Logvinov holds a BA in Business Administration from
Plekhanov Russian Academy of Economics. He is a Certified Information
Systems Security Professional (CISSP) and a Certified Information
Security Manager (CISM).

'''Bio '''- Alex Bello has been involved in the computer security field
for the last six years with over ten years of combined experience in
technical operations, web application development and security. Mr.
Bello is currently serving as the Director of Technical Operations and
the Product Security Team Lead at IronKey. Mr. Bello is responsible for
architecture, operations and security management of the IronKey online
services portfolio as well as IronKey products security testing and
research. Prior to IronKey, Mr. Bello spent over three years consulting
for various security organizations on infrastructure architecture,
security research and web application development projects. Earlier in
his career, Mr. Bello managed technical operations at one of the biggest
online social marketplaces. In addition to his work at IronKey, for the
last five years Mr. Bello has been responsible for technical operations
and engineering at Anti-Phishing Working Group (APWG) supporting data
aggregation, processing and consumption technologies behind one of the
largest anti-phishing UBLs.

'''Cloudy with a chance of a hack: **Cloud computing is a cost effective
and efficient way for enterprises to automate their processes. However
organizations need to be aware of the pitfalls of the many cloud
computing solutions out there - one of the main ones being security.
Most of these solutions were built for ease of use and without
necessarily security in mind. Companies should ask the solution provider
the security measures used in developing the application and get an
independent verification to make sure there are no gaping holes. With
over 75% of attacks occurring through the Web, any attack through these
applications can lead to leakage of confidential information and
embarrassment.
**Bio **– Lars Ewe**: '''Chief Technology Officer and VP of Engineering
for Cenzic. Lars Ewe is a technology executive with broad background in
(web) application development and security, middleware infrastructure,
software development and application/system manageability technologies.
Throughout his career Lars has held key positions in engineering and
product management in a variety of different markets. Prior to Cenzic,
Lars was software development director at Advanced Micro Devices, Inc.,
responsible for AMD's overall systems manageability and related security
strategy and all related engineering efforts.

**Application Security Deployment Tradeoffs:** Application security
tradeoffs and choices are made at various stages of application design,
development and deployment. This talk will cover deployment aspects of
application security. Based on experience in designing, developing and
deploying application security solutions and products for the past 10
years, I will do a case study based analysis of security costs and
tradeoffs. Specifically, we will correlate security choices during
deployment with our observations regarding the relatively higher
adoption of security features and products that have an incremental
deployment plan over those that are more intrusive and/or are
operationally more expensive.
'''Bio '''– Anoop Reddy Anoop Reddy has been working in Security and
Application Firewalls for the past 8 years and has led many innovations
as part of Teros and Citrix. He was the Architect and Technical Lead at
Teros and now manages the Engineering Development for the Application
Firewall product lines at Citrix.


'''MashSSL - **Extending SSL for securing mashups: In this presentation
we will describe MashSSL and how it can be used to solve a fundamental
Internet security problem - when two web applications communicate
through a potentially un-trusted user they do not have any standard way
of mutually authenticating each other and establishing a trusted
channel. MashSSL is a new multi-party protocol that has been expressly
designed to inherit the security properties of SSL, and to be able to
leverage its trust infrastructure. We will also discuss how this can be
used to secure a variety of multi-party environments including mashups
using Cross-domain XHR, OpenAJAX, as well as scenarios such as OpenID
and OAuth.
**Bio '''– Siddharth Bajaj is researching new technologies in the areas
of Internet Trust, Identity and Authentication including how these can
be applied to solve problems in verticals such as healthcare, online
content and cloud computing. Siddharth has been with VeriSign since 1999
and has fulfilled variety of technical leadership roles. He was involved
in the development of the VeriSign PKI services platform as well as the
early conceptualization and architecture of more recent VeriSign
products such as UA and VIP.




## RSVP

Please RSVP by registering at <http://owaspbajuly2010.eventbrite.com/>

# 2010-02-25

  -   - Location: Fujitsu, Sunnyvale
      - Speaker: Mandeep Khera, Bay Area Chapter Leader : Welcome
        Remarks and Overview of OWASP Bay Area-
        [Media:Welcome_Remarks_and_Overview_of_OWASP_Bay_Area_-_Mandeep_Khera,_Bay_Area_Chapter_Leader.ppt‎](Media:Welcome_Remarks_and_Overview_of_OWASP_Bay_Area_-_Mandeep_Khera,_Bay_Area_Chapter_Leader.ppt‎ "wikilink")
      - Speakers: Keynote - Kaj van de Loo, SVP Platforms & On Demand,
        SAP and Yuecel Karabulut, PH.D., Chief Security Advisor 7 Head
        of Security Strategy, SAP Labs, LLC -
        [Media:022510-OWASP-Keynote-KajYuecel-final.pdf](Media:022510-OWASP-Keynote-KajYuecel-final.pdf "wikilink")
      - Speaker: Dawn Song, Associate Professor, UC Berkeley - WebBlaze:
        New Techniques and Tools for Web Security -
        [Media:Fujitsu-owasp-feb-10.pdf‎](Media:Fujitsu-owasp-feb-10.pdf‎ "wikilink")
      - Speakers: Prof. John Mitchell, Stanford University and Jason
        Bau, PH.D. Student, Stanford: State of the Art: Automated
        Black-Box Web app testing- - [Media:Black Box Scanner
        Presentation.pdf‎](Media:Black_Box_Scanner_Presentation.pdf‎ "wikilink")
      - Speaker: Richard Chow, PARC - Controlling Data in the Cloud:
        Outsourcing Computation without Outsourcing Control -
        [Media:Richard Chow OWASP
        02252010.pdf](Media:Richard_Chow_OWASP_02252010.pdf "wikilink")
      - Speakers: Panel - App Security issues - Cloud Security, Inertia
        with App Security, Future of App Security - Q\&A from the
        audience - Panelists: Prof Dawn Song; Richard Chow; Lars Ewe,
        CTO; Cenzic Moderator: Mandeep Khera

# 2009-07-23

  -   - Location:Stanford University
      - Speaker: Mandeep Khera : Welcome Remarks and Overview of OWASP
        Bay Area
      - Speaker: Lars Ewe, CTO, Cenzic : Development Issues Within AJAX
        Applications: How to Divert Threats
      - Speaker: Rob Jeronek, Intuit: Building a Corp App Security
        Assessment Program
      - Speaker: Siva Ram, AppSec: Mastering Session Management
      - Speaker: Brian Contos, Imperva: From Rivals to BFF: WAF & VA
        Unite

# 2009-06-25

  -   - Location: San Francisco Federal Reserve Bank Office, San
        Francisco, CA
      - Speaker: Jeremy Brotherton: Analyzing Web Malware
      - Speaker: Dave Maynor: Mobile Device Security

# 2009-03-18

  -   - Location: Gap Inc, Conference Center C, 2 Folsom Street, San
        Francisco, CA 94105
      - Speaker: Brendan O’Conner: Back to the Future - Phishing and
        Malware
      - Speaker: Kirk Greene: Testing Methodologies: White-box,
        Gray-Box, Black-box or Something Else

# 2008-12-11

  -   - Location: Network Meeting Center, TechMart Center, 5201 Great
        America Parkway, Santa Clara, CA 95054
      - Speaker: Brian Shura: Protecting Website Users from Each Other
      - Speaker: Trey Ford: Making Money the Black Hat Way

# 2008-06-25

  -   - Location: Microsoft, 1065 La Avenida St, Mountain View, CA 94043
      - [All
        Presentations](https://www.owasp.org/index.php/Image:OWASP-BayArea-June08.pdf)

| [Evaluation
Data](https://www.owasp.org/index.php/Image:BayArea-June08-Evaluation.Data.zip)

  -   - Speaker: Mandeep Khera: Overview of the OWASP Bay Area Chapter
      - Speaker: Dr. Chenxi Wang: Consumerization of enterprises
      - Speaker: Collin Jackson: Cross-Site Request Forgery
      - Speaker: Tom Stracener: Google Gadget Security
      - Speaker: Neil Daswani: How Cybercriminals Steal Money

# 2008-02-21

  -   - Location: Robert Half International, 5720 Stoneridge Dr,
        Pleasanton CA 94588
      - Speaker: Kurt Grutzmacher: [Your Client-Side Security Sucks.
        Stop Using
        It.](https://www.owasp.org/index.php/Image:Your_Client_Security_Sucks_-_OWASP.pdf)
      - Speaker: Eric Rachner: [NTLM attacks and
        countermeasures](https://www.owasp.org/index.php/Image:NTLM_Relay_Attacks.pdf)

# 2008-01-24

  -   - Location: PG\&E,245 Market Street, San Francisco, CA 94105
      - Speaker: Erick Lee, Adobe Systems: Securing Flash® & Flex®
        Applications
      - Speaker: Jim Cowing, Digital Resource Group: Application
        Security and PCI Compliance

# 2007-12-13

  -   - Location: Stanford University Alumni Association Center, 326
        Galvez Street, Stanford, CA 94305
      - Speaker: Niels Provos, Google: Ghosts in the Browser
      - Speaker: Adam Barth & Collin Jackson, Stanford University: Ph.D.
        Student Presentations
      - Sponsors: Cenzic and AppSec Consulting