## OWASP Belfast Sponsorship Opportunities

There are many ways you can help the OWASP Belfast Chapter spread the
word about computer security and secure coding. Including the following:

  - If you have a room available to hold a meeting, let us know.
  - Companies can cover the OWASP membership costs of their employees.
  - Supply a speaker on a topic of interest to the OWASP Belfast
    members, or cover their costs to present.
  - Sponsor food and drink for a session.
  - Further sponsorship can be provided directly to the OWASP Belfast
    Chapter itself, using the link above. Direct sponsorship allows the
    OWASP Belfast Board to use the funds as needed to run events.

In return for any sponsorship we can add your company to our list of
sponsors on the OWASP Wiki and Meetup sites, and share communications
with session attendees. Contact the OWASP Belfast Board (below) for more
details.

## OWASP Belfast Board

The OWASP Belfast Chapter Leaders are:

  - [Gary Robinson](mailto:gary.robinson@owasp.org)
  - [Michelle Simpson](mailto:michelle.simpson@owasp.org)
  - [Siobhan Gallagher](mailto:siobhan.gallagher@owasp.org)
  - [Philip O'Kane](mailto:philip.okane@owasp.org)

## About OWASP Belfast

#### What is OWASP Belfast?

OWASP Belfast is just one of over 100 OWASP Chapters around the world,
including 4 in Ireland and 12 in the UK, where people meet to learn
about and discuss software security topics. The OWASP organization also
has lots of active projects that volunteers can participate in to create
code and documents for the worldwide security community. The OWASP Top
10 project is the most famous of those projects.

#### Who is OWASP Belfast for?

It's for programmers, testers, students, project managers, development
managers and security experts to collaborate and drive discussion on
application security topics. Participation in the mailing lists and
attendance at the OWASP Belfast sessions are free, in fact many of the
events will provide food and drinks to attendees.

#### Why be part of OWASP Belfast?

  - The community organizes sessions where experts from across the
    industry (and globe) give presentations and seminars about
    application security topics.
  - Attendance and participation in the community increases knowledge
    and skills, allowing people to stand out from the crowd.
  - Opportunity to network with other Software Professionals and keep in
    touch with job opportunities in the region.

## Local News

**OWASP Belfast Chapter October Session - Wednesday, October 10, 2018**

6:30pm @ Queens Bernard Crossland Building
(https://www.google.com/maps/search/?api=1\&query=54.568462%2C-5.948391)

<https://www.meetup.com/OWASP-Belfast/events/254737546/>

**Encryption and Digital Certificates – A Guide for Software
Developers**

OWASP Belfast are delighted to announce their October session on
Wednesday 10th in the Queens Computer Science building. This session
will be a great talk by David Cochrane on encryption and digitial
certificates, and will include the usual pizza and drinks.

*Talk: Encryption and Digital Certificates – A Guide for Software
Developers*

*Abstract*: This presentation is a tutorial covering the basics of these
important technologies but rapidly moving into practical use cases and
some more in-depth information to assist troubleshooting. It also
includes a case study entitled “Building your own Certifying Authority”
that highlights some practical techniques for secure development.

*Speaker Bio*: David Cochrane has responsibility for IT security and
risk across the Viridian Group of companies. Viridian Group is an energy
utility that owns Power NI and Energia, with over half a million
customers throughout Ireland, two power stations and a large portfolio
of wind farms. In addition to IT security management, David’s experience
includes software design and development, infrastructure design, project
management, technical architecture and a range of management roles.

Thanks to Viridian Group for providing the pizzas and drinks for the
event, and to Queens University for providing the venue.

Sign-up for the OWASP Belfast mailing list for more information about
this session, and other security related topics, at
<http://lists.owasp.org/mailman/listinfo/owasp-Belfast>

[Category:OWASP Chapter](Category:OWASP_Chapter "wikilink")
[Category:Europe](Category:Europe "wikilink")