<noinclude> These are the 2018 events of the [OWASP Belgium
Chapter](Belgium "wikilink").

Previous year: [2017](Belgium_Events_2017 "wikilink"). Next year:
[2019](Belgium_Events_2019 "wikilink"). </noinclude>

## OWASP BeNeLux Days 2018

This conference has its own page:
[OWASP_BeNeLux-Days_2018](OWASP_BeNeLux-Days_2018 "wikilink").

## 23 October 2018 Meeting

### Where

  - Host: [Secure Code Warrior](https://securecodewarrior.com/)

<!-- end list -->

  - Address ([map](https://goo.gl/maps/e6Ej1v44tf32),
    [directions](https://goo.gl/maps/UoW1EM3kbfy), 10 minutes walk from
    Brugge train station)

`Baron Ruzettelaan 1`
`8310 Assebroek`

  - Parking was available under the building, open from 5 p.m., the
    entrance is at the back:

`Vestingstraat 88`
`8310 Assebroek`

### Agenda

  - 18h00 - 18h50: Welcome & pizzas
  - 18h50 - 19h00: [OWASP
    Update](Media:OWASP_Belgium_update_2018-10-23_v1.pptx "wikilink") by
    Sebastien Deleersnyder (OWASP)
  - 19h00 - 19h30: [Effectively Distribute Software Security
    Knowledge](Media:OWASP_20181023_EffectivelyDistributeSoftwareSecurityKnowledge.pdf "wikilink")
    by Pieter De Cremer and Nathan Desmet (Secure Code Warrior)
  - 19h30 - 19h45: Beers from Bruges break
  - 19h45 - 20h25: [Common API Security
    Pitfalls](Media:OWASP_20181023_CommonAPISecurityPitfalls.pdf "wikilink")
    by Philippe De Ryck (Pragmatic Web Security)
  - 20h25 - 22h00: Networking and more beers from Bruges

### Program

#### Effectively Distribute Software Security Knowledge

  - Speaker: [Pieter De Cremer](https://www.linkedin.com/in/pdcremer/)
    ([@pdcremer](https://twitter.com/pdcremer)) and [Nathan
    Desmet](https://www.linkedin.com/in/nathan-desmet-687345aa/) (Secure
    Code Warrior)
  - Presentation attachment:
    [:<File:OWASP_20181023_EffectivelyDistributeSoftwareSecurityKnowledge.pdf>](:File:OWASP_20181023_EffectivelyDistributeSoftwareSecurityKnowledge.pdf "wikilink")

*Abstract*

Security is still a big concern in application development, as breaches
appear in the media on a regular basis. Up to 90 percent of security
issues are caused by problems or oversight in the code (U.S. Department
of Homeland Security, “Infosheet Software Assurance”,
<https://www.us-cert.gov/sites/default/files/publications/infosheet_SoftwareAssurance.pdf>,
last accessed 2018-05-22). They are the result of errors made by the
developers. At the same time, many of these issues are well known,
well-documented problems. But the security experts in charge of securing
the application are understaffed with an average of less than two
security experts per hundred developers (Gary McGraw, Ph.D., Sammy
Migues and Jacob West, “Building Security In Maturity Model (BSIMM)”,
<https://www.bsimm.com/>, 2018). So the problem is not a lack of
knowledge on security but the distribution of it without requiring
costly, unscalable communication cycles between individual developers
and security experts. In this talk we will outline the goal of a new
approach to improve software security, focused on distributing software
security knowledge so that software engineers can effectively put it
into practice with minimal impact on their daily tasks.

*Speaker Bios*

**Pieter De Cremer** is an R\&D Engineer and Security Researcher at
Secure Code Warrior, where he is responsible for researching a wide
variety of application vulnerabilities and developing this into new
content and coding challenges for the Secure Code Warrior platform. His
passion lies in empowering developers to be the first line of defence in
their organisation by making security easy to understand.

Pieter graduated with a Masters in Computer Science Engineering from the
University of Ghent and is currently completing his PhD in Secure Design
Programming Aid for the Internet of Things through a personal grant from
the Flemish government. When he is away from his desk, Pieter has also
facilitated a number of secure coding workshops with Ghent University,
Howest Bruges and Antwerp University, helping students improve their
secure coding skills. His repertoire of coding languages includes C,
C++, Java, Python, node and Haskell.

**Nathan Desmet** is the Lead Engineer at Secure Code Warrior, where he
is responsible for developing Sensei, a real-time correction and
coaching IDE plug-in for secure coding. His passion lies in building
world-class software applications that makes an impact in the way
developers build software with a focus on security.

Prior to Secure Code Warrior, Nathan has worked for NVISO where he
created the Cyber Security Challenge platform, the biggest computer
security competition in Belgium. Nathan also co-founded Sensei Security,
and founded Applix, a software consultancy firm. His clients include
SMEs in the technology and legal sector.

Nathan graduated with a degree in Computer Science from the University
of Howest Bruges, majoring in Computer and Cybercrime Professional.

#### Common API Security Pitfalls

  - Speaker: [Philippe De Ryck](https://twitter.com/PhilippeDeRyck)
    ([Pragmatic Web Security](https://pragmaticwebsecurity.com/))
  - Presentation attachment:
    [:<File:OWASP_20181023_CommonAPISecurityPitfalls.pdf>](:File:OWASP_20181023_CommonAPISecurityPitfalls.pdf "wikilink")

*Abstract*

The shift towards an API landscape indicates a significant evolution in
the way we build applications. The rise of JavaScript and mobile
applications have sparked an explosion of easily-accessible REST APIs.
But how do you protect access to your API? Which security aspects are no
longer relevant? Which security features are an absolutely must-have,
and which additional security measures do you need to take into account?

These are hard questions, as evidenced by the deployment of numerous
insecure APIs. Attend this session to find out about common API security
pitfalls, that often result in compromised user accounts and
unauthorized access to your data. We expose the problem that lies at the
root of each of these pitfalls, and offer actionable advice to address
these security problems. After this session, you will know how to assess
the security of your APIs, and the best practices to improve them
towards the future.

*Speaker Bio*

Philippe De Ryck is the founder of Pragmatic Web Security, where he
travels the world to train developers on web security and security
engineering. He holds a Ph.D. in web security from KU Leuven. Google
recognizes Philippe as a Google Developer Expert for his knowledge of
web security and security in Angular applications.

### Registration

Registration was via EventBrite:
<https://owasp-belgium-2018-10-23.eventbrite.com>

### Coverage

n/a

## 17 September 2018 Meeting

### Where

  - Host: [European Commission](https://ec.europa.eu)

<!-- end list -->

  - Address
    ([map](https://www.google.com/maps/place/Place+Madou+1,+1210+Saint-Josse-ten-Noode/),
    [directions](https://www.google.com/maps/dir//Place+Madou+1,+1210+Saint-Josse-ten-Noode))

`Place Madou, 1`
`1210 Saint-Josse-Ten-Noode`

### Agenda

  - 18h00 - 18h50: Welcome & sandwiches
  - 18h50 - 19h00: [OWASP
    Update](https://www.owasp.org/images/9/9b/Owasp_Belgium_update_2018-09-17_v1.pptx)
    by Sebastien Deleersnyder (OWASP)
  - 19h00 - 19h10: *Intro by the EC* by Miguel Soria Machado (Head of
    Sector CSIRC, DIGIT IT Security Directorate, European Commission)
  - 19h10 - 20h00: [Docker Threat Modeling and
    Top 10](https://www.owasp.org/images/1/17/Dirk_Wetter_-_Docker_Security_Brussels.pdf)
    by Dirk Wetter
  - 20h00 - 20h10: Break
  - 20h10 - 21h00: [Securing Containers on the High
    Seas](https://www.owasp.org/images/1/1c/Securing_Containers_on_the_High_Seas_%28OWASP_Belgium_September_17-09-2018%29.pdf)
    by Jack Mannino (nVisium)
  - 21h00 - 21h30: Networking drink

### Program

#### Docker Threat Modeling and Top 10

  - Speaker: [Dirk Wetter](https://twitter.com/drwetter)
  - Presentation:
    <https://www.owasp.org/images/1/17/Dirk_Wetter_-_Docker_Security_Brussels.pdf>

*Abstract*

Docker containers offer several advantages for developers. Most notably
they fit perfectly in software development processes, they enable fast,
reproducible deployments and when properly done, with little change the
same container can run either in a test or production environment.

Despite threatening information out there Docker offers per se also
several security advantages. However it is important to make use of them
and as a minimum avoid several pitfalls. In a worst case scenario this
can lead otherwise to less security or the security benefits which the
containment technology offers are not being used at all.

To avoid this a proper fundamental approach is needed.

Thus this talk models first the most important threats to containerized
environments out there. Based on that the speaker will present 10
security bullet points which covers:

  - important Do's and Dont's,
  - for advanced needs how to tighten security further.

At the end the speaker gives advice how to check your Docker and
Kubernetes security status yourself.

The talk is based on practical experiences at several costumers and on
the speaker's solid network and systems security expertise.

*Speaker Bio*

Dirk Wetter (Ph.D.) is an independent security consultant with more than
20 years professional experience in information security with a broad
technical and information security management background.

His primary focus nowadays is around web application security. He has
also a solid background on network and systems security.

He's also founder and maintainer of the open source project testssl.sh
which checks the encryption of every SSL/TLS enabled service.

#### Securing Containers on the High Seas

  - Speaker: [Jack Mannino](https://twitter.com/jack_mannino) (nVisium)
  - Presentation:
    <https://www.owasp.org/images/1/1c/Securing_Containers_on_the_High_Seas_%28OWASP_Belgium_September_17-09-2018%29.pdf>

*Abstract*

It can be a difficult challenge for organizations to securely migrate to
containers while shifting processes and security controls. Making the
move from legacy virtualization and monolithic deployments to containers
requires a solid strategy. Containers offer many inherent security
benefits but it’s important to build controls in beyond the containers
themselves. From development through container registries and deployment
to a runtime environment, it’s important to enforce security and
eliminate risks as they’re introduced.

This presentation will focus on scaling container security within an
enterprise and building security controls into the way you build, ship,
and run containerized services. We will discuss the modern container
landscape including different container runtimes and isolation models.
We will explore the container lifecycle from your developer’s laptop
through your production environment and examine the key security
problems to mitigate.

*Speaker Bios*

Jack Mannino is the CEO of nVisium. Passionate about security and
impossible to keep away from a keyboard, his expertise spans over 15
years of building, breaking, and securing software. Jack founded nVisium
in 2009, and since has helped the world's largest software teams enhance
security across their software portfolios. He has spoken at conferences
globally on topics such as secure design, mobile application security,
and cloud-native security.

### Registration

Two step registration:

1.  Registration was via EventBrite:
    <https://owasp-belgium-2018-09-17.eventbrite.com>.
2.  Pre-registration of participants' ID documents, necessary for
    passing security checkpoint at the entrance to the site was via:
    <https://ec.europa.eu/eusurvey/runner/OWASPBelgiumChapterMeetingSept17>.
    The deadline for this registration was *Sunday, September 16th
    midnight*.

### Coverage

n/a

## 19 March 2018 Meeting

### Where

  - Host: [ING Belgium](https://www.ing.be)

<!-- end list -->

  - Address
    ([map](https://branches.ing.be/branch/1040_bxl-non-residents))

`Cours St Michel 60`
`1040 Brussel`

### Agenda

  - 18h15 - 19h00: Welcome & sandwiches
  - 19h00 - 19h10: *OWASP Update* by Sebastien Deleersnyder (OWASP)
  - 19h10 - 20h00: *KRACKing WPA2 in Practice Using Key Reinstallation
    Attacks* by Mathy Vanhoef (imec-DistriNet-KU Leuven)
  - 20h00 - 20h10: Break
  - 20h10 - 21h00: *Making the web secure by design* by Glenn Ten Cate
    (ING Belgium) and Riccardo Ten Cate (Xebia)
  - 21h00 - 21h30: Networking drink

### Program

#### KRACKing WPA2 in Practice Using Key Reinstallation Attacks

  - Speaker: Mathy Vanhoef (imec-DistriNet-KU Leuven)
  - Presentation: not yet available

*Abstract*

This talk presents the key reinstallation attack against WPA2 (KRACK
attack). It abuses design or implementation flaws in cryptographic
protocols to reinstall an already-in-use key. This resets the key’s
associated parameters such as transmit nonces and receive replay
counters. Several cryptographic Wi-Fi handshakes are affected by the
attack.

All protected Wi-Fi networks use the 4-way handshake to generate a fresh
session key. So far, this 14-year-old handshake has remained free from
attacks. However, we show that the 4-way handshake is vulnerable to a
key reinstallation attack. Here, the adversary tricks a victim into
reinstalling an already-in-use key. This is achieved by manipulating and
replaying handshake messages. When reinstalling the key, associated
parameters such as the incremental transmit packet number (nonce) and
receive packet number (replay counter) are reset to their initial value.

The talk also discusses the vulnerability disclosure process that was
followed. Since the discovery affected numerous vendors, coordinating
the disclosure was non-trivial.

*Speaker Bio*

Mathy Vanhoef is a postdoctoral researcher at KU Leuven. He did his PhD
on the security of WPA-TKIP, TLS, and RC4. His research interest is in
computer security with a focus on wireless security (e.g. Wi-Fi),
network protocols in general, the RC4 stream cipher (where he discovered
the RC NOMORE attack), and software security (discovering and exploiting
vulnerabilities). Currently his main research is about automatically
discovering vulnerabilities in network protocol implementations, and
proving the correctness of protocol implementations.

#### Making the web secure by design

  - Speaker: Glenn Ten Cate (ING Belgium) and Riccardo Ten Cate (Xebia)
  - Presentation: not yet available

*Abstract*

Education is the first step in the Secure Software Development
Lifecycle. The free OWASP Security Knowledge Framework (SKF) is intended
to be a tool that is used as a guide for building and verifying secure
software. It can also be used to train developers about application
security. This talk will help you as a developer to become THE Neo of
your development team. We will show how you can do security by design
and introduce other quality gates into your development pipeline to
ensure high end quality and security of your project.

*Speaker Bios*

As a coder, hacker, speaker, trainer and security researcher employed at
ING Belgium, **Glenn Ten Cate** has over 10 years experience in the
field of security. One of the founders of defensive development
\[defdev\] a security training and conference series dedicated to
helping you build and maintain secure software and also speaking at
multiple other security conferences in the world. His goals is to create
an open-source software development life cycle with the tools and
knowledge gathered over the years.

As a penetration tester from the Netherlands employed at Xebia,
**Riccardo Ten Cate** specialises in web-application security and has
extensive knowledge in securing web applications in multiple coding
languages. He is also a specialist in setting up Secure Software
Development Life Cycles.

### Registration

Registration was via EventBrite:
<https://owasp-belgium-2018-03-19.eventbrite.com>.

### Coverage

n/a

## 20 February 2018 Meeting

### Where

  - Host: [DistriNet Research Group (KU
    Leuven)](https://distrinet.cs.kuleuven.be) (Both speakers are
    faculty of the [Secure Application
    Development](https://www.secappdev.org/) course held in Leuven from
    2018-02-19 to 2018-02-23.)

<!-- end list -->

  - Address
    ([map](http://googlemapsinterface.kuleuven.be/index.cgi?lang=N&nbol=\(50.864186697481145,%204.678754210472107\)&zoomlevel=17&plaatsnaam=Department+of+Computer+Science&maptype=roadmap),
    [directions](https://distrinet.cs.kuleuven.be/about/route/)):

`Department of Computer Science (foyer at ground floor)`
`Celestijnenlaan 200 A`
`3001 Heverlee`

### Agenda

  - 18h15 - 19h00: Welcome & sandwiches
  - 19h00 - 19h10: [OWASP
    Update](https://www.owasp.org/images/7/7a/Owasp_Belgium_update_2018-02-20_v1.pdf)
    by Sebastien Deleersnyder (OWASP)
  - 19h10 - 20h00: [Developers are not the enemy -- Usable Security for
    Experts](https://schd.ws/hosted_files/secappdev2018/a9/Developer%20are%20not%20the%20enemy%20SecAppDev%20web.pdf)
    by Prof. Matthew Smith (University of Bonn)
  - 20h00 - 20h10: Break
  - 20h10 - 21h00: [The Code Behind The
    Vulnerability](https://schd.ws/hosted_files/secappdev2018/75/The%20code%20behind%20the%20vulnerability.pdf)
    by Barry Dorrans (Microsoft)

### Program

#### Developers are not the enemy -- Usable Security for Experts

  - Speaker: Prof. Matthew Smith (University of Bonn)
  - Presentation:
    <https://schd.ws/hosted_files/secappdev2018/a9/Developer%20are%20not%20the%20enemy%20SecAppDev%20web.pdf>

*Abstract*

Usability problems are a major cause of many of today's IT-security
incidents. Security systems are often too complicated, time-consuming,
and error prone. For more than a decade researchers in the domain of
usable security (USEC) have attempted to combat these problems by
conducting interdisciplinary research focusing on the root causes of the
problems and on the creation of usable security mechanisms. While major
improvements have been made, to date USEC research has focused almost
entirely on the non-expert end-user. However, many of the most
catastrophic security incidents were not caused by end-users, but by
developers or administrators. Heartbleed and Shellshock were both caused
by single developers yet had global consequences. The Sony hack in 2014
compromised an entire multi-national IT-infrastructure and
misappropriated over 100 TB of data, unnoticed. Fundamentally, every
software vulnerability and misconfigured system is caused by developers
or administrators making mistakes, but very little research has been
done into the underlying causalities and possible mitigation strategies.
In this talk we will explore the transition from end-user to expert
usable security research and look at several application areas,
including TLS, passwords, malware analysis and vulnerability analysis.

*Speaker Bio*

Matthew Smith is a Professor for Usable Security and Privacy at the
University of Bonn. His research is focused on human factors of security
and privacy mechanisms with a wide range of application areas, including
TLS and network security, authentication, mobile and app security and,
most recently, usable security for developers and administrators. His
work has been published at, among others, IEEE S\&P, ACM CCS, USENIX
Security, NDSS, ACM SIGCHI and SOUPS the Symposium on Usable Security
and Privacy. In 2015 his ERC Starting Grant "Frontiers of Usable
Security" was selected for funding.

#### The Code Behind The Vulnerability

  - Speaker: Barry Dorrans (Microsoft)
  - Presentation:
    <https://schd.ws/hosted_files/secappdev2018/75/The%20code%20behind%20the%20vulnerability.pdf>

*Abstract*

Everyone makes security mistakes, and that includes Microsoft
(seriously\!). Many developers can spot and prevent vulnerabilities
listed in the OWASP top 10. But that narrative changes when we look
beyond the scope of the OWASP top 10. Compared to some more recent
attacks, fixing XSS or SQL injection almost seems easy. In this session,
we dive into a couple of .NET core cases that have been reported to the
Microsoft Security Response Center (MSRC). Mind you; these
vulnerabilities are not just framework vulnerabilities. Instead, they
are coding patterns that you may have introduced in your applications.
Examples are issues with hash tables, compression, encryption, regular
expressions and more. In this session, you will learn how to spot these
vulnerabilities in your code. On top of that, you will walk away with
the skills to fix them.

*Speaker Bio*

Barry Dorrans is the .NET Security Czar, which means he tries to tell
everyone else how to code securely and taking the credit when it goes
right, as well as running the .NET Core Bug Bounty. He also ends up
triaging publicly and privately reported vulnerabilities when it goes
wrong before getting someone else to fix the mistakes. This he gets all
the fun and none of the real work, aside from the endless stress
wondering when the next vulnerability will be discovered.

### Registration

Registration was via EventBrite:
<https://owasp-belgium-2018-02-20.eventbrite.com>.

### Coverage

n/a