<noinclude> These are the 2008 events of the [OWASP Belgium
Chapter](Belgium "wikilink").

Previous year: [2007](Belgium_Events_2007 "wikilink"). Next year:
[2009](Belgium_Events_2009 "wikilink"). </noinclude>

## Meeting (Nov-17-2008) in Brussels (event with ISSA)

### WHEN

Monday, November 17th, 2008 (18h00pm-21h00pm)

### WHERE

Location was sponsored by Isabel, the catering was sponsored by
[ISSA](http://www.issa-be.org/mambo/index.php)

address:
Isabel S.A./NV
Putterijstraat 22 Rue de la Putterie,
1000 Brussels
Routemap: [Route](http://www.isabel.be/gps/en/isabel/routemap.php)
Google Maps
[Link](http://maps.google.com/maps?f=q&hl=en&geocode=&q=Keizerinlaan,+13-15+1000+Brussel&sll=37.0625,-95.677068&sspn=47.483365,89.648437&ie=UTF8&z=16)

### PROGRAM

The agenda:

  - 18h00 - 18h30: Welcome & Refreshments
  - 18h30 - 19h00: **OWASP / ISSA introduction** (by Philippe Bogaerts,
    OWASP Belgium and Bart Moerman, ISSA Brussels-European Chapter)
  - 19h00 - 20h00: '''Risky PDF ''' (by Didier Stevens, Contraste
    Europe)

<!-- end list -->

  -
    [download
    presentation](http://blog.didierstevens.com/2008/11/18/my-issa-owasp-talk-risky-pdf/)
    *Presentation + discussion:* The Portable Document Format (PDF) is a
    file format created by Adobe for document exchange. The extensive
    features of this powerful page description language offer
    opportunities for malicious use. Using this file format exposes your
    organisation to particular security risks. SPAM and malware using
    PDF as a vector are not the sole risks that the Portable Document
    Format brings you. Lesser-known risks include phishing, information
    disclosure and copyright infringement. After a brief introduction to
    the structure of a PDF document, we will discuss the many risks
    associated with PDFs and show how to mitigate said risks.
    **Didier Stevens** Didier Stevens (CISSP, GSSP-C, MCSE/Security,
    ...) is an IT Security Consultant currently working at a large
    Belgian financial corporation. He is employed by Contraste Europe
    NV, an IT Consulting Services company. Didier blogs at
    <http://blog.didierstevens.com>

<!-- end list -->

  - 20h00 - 21h00: **.NET Rootkits - Backdoors Inside Your Framework**
    (by Erez Metula, 2BSecure)

<!-- end list -->

  -
    [download
    presentation](http://www.applicationsecurity.co.il/english/NETFrameworkRootkits/tabid/161/Default.aspx)
    *Presentation + discussion:* It is considered relatively easy to
    reverse engineer compiled .NET EXE's and DLL's. This is a well known
    fact. But what happens if we will use this fact to reverse engineer
    and modify .NET Framework DLL's and recompile the code..? We can
    change the .NET language\! Erez Metula will expose the methods
    required to modify the Framework, and how to bypass its own
    protection mechanisms. We will see how it is possible to write
    rootkits for the framework, that will enable the attacker to install
    a reverse shell inside the framework, to steal valuable information,
    to fixate encryption keys, disable security checks and more. In
    addition, a new tool (".NET-Sploit") for building MSIL rootkits will
    be released that will enable the user to inject preloaded/custom
    payload to the Framework core DLL.
    Agenda:
      - Introduction .NET execution model & .NET reverse engineering
      - Modifying the Framework core
      - Function injection
      - Installing backdoors and root kits
      - Automating the process with .NET-Sploit
      - Things to consider when injecting
    Presentation abstract online by Erez:
    <http://www.applicationsecurity.co.il/.NET-Framework-Rootkits.aspx>
    **Erez Metula** is a senior application security consultant, working
    as the application security department manager at 2BSecure. He has
    extensive hands-on experience performing security assessments,
    secure development consulting & training for clients in Israel and
    abroad such as banks, financial organizations, military, software
    development companies, telecom, and more. Erez is also a leading
    instructor for many information security training, especially on
    secure software development methodologies & techniques. He had
    lectured on advanced .NET security (and other development platforms)
    for worldwide organizations and is constant speaker for conferences
    such as Microsoft .NET Security User Group, OWASP (Open Web
    Application Security Project), and more. He holds a CISSP
    certification and is toward graduation of Msc in computer science.

### REGISTRATION

Please **send a mail** to Belgium 'at' owasp.org if you plan to attend,
so we can size the venue appropriately and keep you updated on
last-minute changes.

## Chapter Meeting (Oct-23-2008) in Huizingen (near Brussels)

### WHEN

Thursday, October 23rd, 2008 (18h00pm-21h00pm)

### WHERE

Location was sponsored by RealDolmen

adres:
Industriezone Zenneveld
A. Vaucampslaan 42
1654 Huizingen
Google Maps
[Link](http://maps.google.com/maps?f=q&hl=nl&geocode=&q=A.+Vaucampslaan+42,+huizingen&sll=37.0625,-95.677068&sspn=55.411532,89.648437&ie=UTF8&z=16&iwloc=addr)

### PROGRAM

The agenda:

  - 18h00 - 18h30: Welcome & Refreshments
  - 18h30 - 19h00: **OWASP Update** (by Sebastien Deleersnyder, OWASP
    Belgium)
  - 19h00 - 20h00: '''Building a tool for Security consultants: A story
    of a customized source code scanner ''' (by Dinis Cruz, OWASP)

<!-- end list -->

  -
    *Presentation + discussion:*
    **Dinis Cruz** Dinis Cruz is a Security Consultant based in London
    (UK) and specialized in: ASP.NET Application Security, Active
    Directory deployments, Application Security audits and .NET Security
    Curriculum Development. Dinis is also Chief OWASP Evangelist\!

<!-- end list -->

  - 20h00 - 21h00: **Logging: not just a good idea**
    ([download](:Image:BE_Chapter_Presentation_logging.ppt "wikilink"))
    (by Eddy Vanlerberghe)

<!-- end list -->

  -
    *Presentation + discussion:* During the design and implementation of
    applications, logging is often not considered to be a vital factor
    in the overall security, but merely one of the tools of the trade
    used by developers so that runtime errors can easily be traced to
    their root cause in the application source. As a result, lack of
    decent security logs usually becomes clear when they are needed the
    most: when an incident has occurred. Incidents where logging plays a
    crucial role could be disputes over whether or not a customer issued
    a certain transaction (non-repudiation), intruders have compromised
    bank accounts (forensic investigation) or even foil an ongoing
    attack when suspicious traffic is being registered (e.g. lock out IP
    addresses of suspected attackers) This presentation will handle
    different aspects of what constitutes secure application logging:
    what to log, when to log, access to log information etc.
    **Eddy Vanlerberghe** has extensive experience as a developer. He
    has been involved in development of commercial Internet Web
    applications since 1996. In 1999 he joined the company Netvision,
    which was first renamed to Ubizen and even later the company became
    Cybertrust. In 2007 the company was acquired by VerizonBusiness. Mr.
    Vanlerberghe was part of the development teams for security related
    products like ETS Multisecure, EasyPayment and the web application
    level firewall DMZShield. Since 2005 he has been part of the
    Application Security team where he was involved in all aspects of
    application security.

## Chapter Meeting (Apr-21-2008) in Luxembourg\!

### WHEN

Monday, April 21st, 2008 (16h30pm-19h30pm)

### WHERE

Location: Centre de Recherche Public Henri Tudor

29, Avenue John F.Kennedy

L-1855 Luxembourg-Kirchberg

[Download the access plan
online](http://www.tudor.lu/cms/tudor/publishingfr.nsf/0/88AEE4F141AB3FB5C1257206002DAFE2/$file/PLAN_ACCES_CRP.pdf).

### PROGRAM

The agenda:

  - 16h00 - 16h30: Welcome & Sandwiches
  - 16h30 - 17h00: **OWASP Introduction** (by Sebastien Deleersnyder,
    OWASP BeLux)
  - 17h00 - 18h00: '''How to break Web Applications ''' (by Philippe
    Bogaerts, NetAppSec)

<!-- end list -->

  -
    *Presentation + discussion:*Web applications are riddled with
    vulnerabilities. Philippe will provide an overview of the most
    common web application security problems and how to exploit them.
    **Philippe Bogaerts** is an independent consultant specialized in
    network and application security testing, web application and XML
    firewalls.

<!-- end list -->

  - 18h00 - 18h15: break
  - 18h15 - 19h15: **How to secure Web Applications (the OWASP Way):**
    (by Sebastien Deleersnyder, Telindus)

<!-- end list -->

  -
    *Presentation + discussion:* There is no silver bullet when it comes
    to securing web applications. This problem has to be addressed from
    different angles, covering the involved actors, processes
    (development as well as deployment) and Technologies.
    **Sebastien Deleersnyder** is responsible for the Telindus
    Application Security solutions. Sebastien has 5 years of development
    and 7 years of information security experience and is now
    specialized in application security. He started the Belgian OWASP
    Chapter and performed several public presentations on Web
    Application and Web Services Security.

## Chapter Meeting (Apr-9-2008) in Brussels

### WHEN

Wednesday, April 9th, 2008 (18h00-20h30)

### WHERE

Location: Deloitte Diegem,

### PROGRAM

The agenda:

  - 18h00 - 18h30: Welcome & Sandwiches
  - 18h30 - 18h40: **[OWASP
    Update](http://www.owasp.org/images/8/88/OWASP_BeLux_2008-04-09_OWASP_Update.ppt)**
    (by Sebastien Deleersnyder, OWASP BeLux)
  - 18h40 - 20h30: **[Exploiting Oracle databases via the
    Web](http://www.owasp.org/images/9/91/OWASP_BeLux_2008-04-09_Alexander_Kornbrust.pdf)**
    (by Alexander Kornbrust, [Red Database Security
    GmbH](http://www.red-database-security.com/))

<!-- end list -->

  -
    *Presentation + discussion*
    **Alexander Kornbrust** is the founder and CEO of
    Red-Database-Security GmbH, a company specialized in Oracle
    security. Red-Database-Security is one of the leading companies in
    Oracle security. He is responsible for Oracle security audits and
    Oracle anti-hacker trainings and gave various presentations on
    security conferences like Black Hat, Bluehat, IT Underground.
    Alexander Kornbrust has worked with Oracle products as an Oracle DBA
    and Oracle developer since 1992. During the last years, Alexander
    has found over 220 security bugs in different Oracle products.

## OWASP on Infosecurity.be 2008

### WHEN

Thursday, March 20th, 2008 (15h00pm-16h00pm) in Room 2 of the Seminar
Program

### TOPIC: Web hacks of 2007 and how to protect your web applications in 2008 with OWASP

Presentation is
[online](http://www.owasp.org/images/d/d0/OWASP_BeLux_Infosecurity_v20080319_v2.ppt)
now.

The Open Web Application Security Project (OWASP) is a worldwide free
and open community focused on improving the security of application
software. Our mission is to make application security "visible," so that
people and organizations can make informed decisions about application
security risks.

First an overview of the major web hacks of 2007 will be given,
including XSS Vulnerabilities in Common Shockwave Flash Files, Universal
XSS in Adobe’s Acrobat Reader Plugin , Firefoxurl URI Handler Flaw,
Anti-DNS Pinning ( DNS Rebinding ), Port Scan without JavaScript, …

Then some important OWASP projects are described, covering the OWASP
Guide, the OWASP Top Ten, OWASP WebGoat, OWASP CLASP, OWASP WebScarab,
OWASP Testing and OWASP Code Review. Using and improving these OWASP
solution will aid organisations to prevent 2008 from being as bad as
2007.

Speaker: Sebastien Deleersnyder

Sebastien Deleersnyder started the successful Belgian OWASP Chapter and
performed several public presentations on web application and web
services security. Sebastien specialises in (web) application security,
combining his application development and information security
experience. He is currently OWASP board member and responsible for the
Telindus, Belgacom ICT application security offering.

## Chapter Meeting (4-Mar-2008) in Leuven

### WHEN

Tuesday, March 4th, 2008 (18pm-21pm)

### WHERE

[Distrinet Research Group, Katholieke Universiteit
Leuven](http://distrinet.cs.kuleuven.be/) sponsored the venue

Location: Department of Computer Science (auditorium 00.225)
Celestijnenlaan 200 A, 3001 Heverlee

### PROGRAM

The agenda:

  - 18h00 - 18h30: Welcome, Refreshments and drinks
  - 18h30 - 18h45: Sebastien Deleersnyder, OWASP BeLux

        **[OWASP
Update](http://www.owasp.org/images/f/f9/OWASP_BeLux_2008-03-04_OWASP_Update.ppt)**
\* 18h45 - 19h00: Kenneth Van Wyck, , KRvW Associates
:**[CAcert.org and
Thawte](http://www.owasp.org/images/e/ee/Ken_Van_Wyck_Secure_SDLCs_compared.pdf)**
:If you're using either of these free x.509 certificate services, and
are still trying to get the 50 assurance points necessary to have your
real name on your certificates, stop by with two forms of
government-issued ID (and photocopies, if using Thawte -- not necessary
for CAcert). Ken will be happy to help out with either/both 10 Thawte
points or 35 CAcert points. No charge, of course.

  -
    If you also are a Thawte or CAcert.org notary, you can help by
    adding your points to Ken's and thereby allowing other attendees to
    obtain all the assurance points needed in one swift swoop.

<!-- end list -->

  - 19h00 - 20h00: Ken Van Wyk, KRvW Associates

<!-- end list -->

  -
    **Development life cycle issues**
    Several secure software development processes have been published in
    the past few years. These include Microsoft's Secure Development
    Lifecycle, Cigital's "Touchpoints", and OWASP's own CLASP project.
    Which one is right for your organization, or would your needs be
    best served by taking the best of each and coming up with "your own"
    process? In this talk, we'll compare and contrast each of these
    approaches and talk about the practical aspects of putting them to
    maximum use, including pitfalls to avoid.
    **Ken Van Wyk** Ken van Wyk, has over 20 years of professional
    experience in IT Security and has worked at Carnegie Mellon
    University's CERT®, the U.S. Department of Defense, SAIC and
    Para-Protect. Co-author of two popular O'Reilly books, [Incident
    Response: Planning &
    Management](http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/0596001304/qid=1133642048/sr=1-2/ref=sr_1_2?s=books%26v=glance%26n=283155)
    and [Secure Coding: Principles and
    Practices](http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/0596001304/qid=1133642048/sr=1-2/ref=sr_1_2?s=books%26v=glance%26n=283155),
    Ken also writes a monthly column for IT Security on-line news
    portal, [eSecurityPlanet](http://www.esecurityplanet.com/). He is
    one of the founders of the Carnegie Mellon CERT/CC, and a much
    sought after lecturer on security technology. He is a partner at
    [KRvW Associates](http://krvw.com/).

<!-- end list -->

  - 20h00 - 20h15: break
  - 20h15 - 21h15: Bart De Win, DistriNet, K.U.Leuven

<!-- end list -->

  -
    **[Structural improvements for
    SDLs](http://www.owasp.org/images/a/a2/BArt_De_Win_ProcessImprovements_final.pdf)**
    Based on an extensive study and comparison of a number of secure
    software development processes (the results of which have been
    presented during the Belgium OWASP day last year), we have
    identified a number of structural improvements for these processes.
    In this talk, I will present these improvements from a general
    perspective, give hints on how they could be addressed and I will
    elaborate on some of them (e.g., the integration of security
    principles in a process) in more detail with results of ongoing
    research.
    **Bart De Win** Bart De Win is a postdoctoral researcher in the
    DistriNet research group at the Department of Computer Science,
    Katholieke Universiteit Leuven. His research focuses on secure
    software engineering, including software development processes,
    aspect-oriented software development and model-driven security. Bart
    has served on the organizing and program committees of several
    international secure software engineering workshops.