__NOTOC__
Last revision (mm/dd/yy): **//**

## Description

Blind SQL (Structured Query Language) injection is a type of [SQL
Injection](SQL_Injection "wikilink") attack that asks the database true
or false questions and determines the answer based on the applications
response. This attack is often used when the web application is
configured to show generic error messages, but has not mitigated the
code that is vulnerable to SQL injection.

When an attacker exploits SQL injection, sometimes the web application
displays error messages from the database complaining that the SQL
Query's syntax is incorrect. Blind SQL injection is nearly identical to
normal [SQL Injection](SQL_Injection "wikilink"), the only difference
being the way the data is retrieved from the database. When the database
does not output data to the web page, an attacker is forced to steal
data by asking the database a series of true or false questions. This
makes exploiting the SQL Injection vulnerability more difficult, but not
impossible. .

## Threat Modeling

Same as for [SQL Injection](SQL_Injection "wikilink")

## Risk Factors

Same as for [SQL Injection](SQL_Injection "wikilink")

## Examples

An attacker may verify whether a sent request returned true or false in
a few ways:

### Content-based

Using a simple page, which displays an article with given ID as the
parameter, the attacker may perform a couple of simple tests to
determine if the page is vulnerable to SQL Injection attacks.

Example URL:

    http://newspaper.com/items.php?id=2

sends the following query to the database:

    SELECT title, description, body FROM items WHERE ID = 2

The attacker may then try to inject a query that returns 'false':

    http://newspaper.com/items.php?id=2 and 1=2

Now the SQL query should looks like this:

    SELECT title, description, body FROM items WHERE ID = 2 and 1=2

If the web application is vulnerable to SQL Injection, then it probably
will not return anything. To make sure, the attacker will inject a query
that will return 'true':

    http://newspaper.com/items.php?id=2 and 1=1

If the content of the page that returns 'true' is different than that of
the page that returns 'false', then the attacker is able to distinguish
when the executed query returns true or false.

Once this has been verified, the only limitations are privileges set up
by the database administrator, different SQL syntax, and the attacker's
imagination.

### Time-based

This type of blind SQL injection relies on the database pausing for a
specified amount of time, then returning the results, indicating
successful SQL query executing. Using this method, an attacker
enumerates each letter of the desired piece of data using the following
logic:

If the first letter of the first database's name is an 'A', wait for 10
seconds.

If the first letter of the first database's name is an 'B', wait for 10
seconds. etc.

**Microsoft SQL Server**

    http://www.site.com/vulnerable.php?id=1' waitfor delay '00:00:10'--

**MySQL**

    SELECT IF(expression, true, false)

Using some time-taking operation e.g. BENCHMARK(), will delay server
responses if the expression is True.

    BENCHMARK(5000000,ENCODE('MSG','by 5 seconds'))

\- will execute the ENCODE function 5000000 times.

Depending on the database server's performance and load, it should take
just a moment to finish this operation. The important thing is, from the
attacker's point of view, to specify a high-enough number of BENCHMARK()
function repetitions to affect the database response time in a
noticeable way.

Example combination of both queries:

    1 UNION SELECT IF(SUBSTRING(user_password,1,1) = CHAR(50),BENCHMARK(5000000,ENCODE('MSG','by 5 seconds')),null) FROM users WHERE user_id = 1;

If the database response took a long time, we may expect that the first
user password character with user_id = 1 is character '2'.

    (CHAR(50) == '2')

Using this method for the rest of characters, it's possible to enumerate
entire passwords stored in the database. This method works even when the
attacker injects the SQL queries and the content of the vulnerable page
doesn't change.

Obviously, in this example, the names of the tables and the number of
columns was specified. However, it's possible to guess them or check
with a trial and error method.

Databases other than MySQL also have time-based functions which allow
them to be used for time-based attacks:

  - MS SQL 'WAIT FOR DELAY '0:0:10''
  - PostgreSQL - pg_sleep()

Conducting Blind_SQL_Injection attacks manually is very time
consuming, but there are a lot of tools which automate this process. One
of them is SQLMap (http://sqlmap.org/) partly developed within OWASP
grant program. On the other hand, tools of this kind are very sensitive
to even small deviations from the rule. This includes:

  - scanning other website clusters, where clocks are not ideally
    synchronized,
  - WWW services where argument acquiring method was changed, e.g. from
    /index.php?ID=10 to /ID,10

### Remote Database Fingerprinting

If the attacker is able to determine when his query returns True or
False, then he may fingerprint the RDBMS. This will make the whole
attack much easier. If the time-based approach is used, this helps
determine what type of database is in use. Another popular methods to do
this is to call functions which will return the current date. MySQL,
MSSQL, and Oracle have different functions for that, respectively
*now()*, *getdate()*, and *sysdate()*.

## Related [Threat Agents](Threat_Agents "wikilink")

Same as for [SQL Injection](SQL_Injection "wikilink")

## Related [Attacks](Attacks "wikilink")

  - [Blind_XPath_Injection](Blind_XPath_Injection "wikilink")
  - [SQL_Injection](SQL_Injection "wikilink")
  - [XPATH_Injection](XPATH_Injection "wikilink")
  - [LDAP_injection](LDAP_injection "wikilink")
  - [Server-Side_Includes_%28SSI%29_Injection](Server-Side_Includes_%28SSI%29_Injection "wikilink")

## Related [Vulnerabilities](Vulnerabilities "wikilink")

  - [Injection_problem](Injection_problem "wikilink")

## Related [Controls](Controls "wikilink")

  - [:Category:Input Validation](:Category:Input_Validation "wikilink")

See the [OWASP Development
Guide](:Category:OWASP_Guide_Project "wikilink") article on how to
[Avoid SQL Injection](Guide_to_SQL_Injection "wikilink")
Vulnerabilities.
See the OWASP [SQL Injection Prevention Cheat
Sheet](SQL_Injection_Prevention_Cheat_Sheet "wikilink").

See the [OWASP Code Review
Guide](:Category:OWASP_Code_Review_Project "wikilink") article on how to
[Review Code for SQL
Injection](Reviewing_Code_for_SQL_Injection "wikilink") Vulnerabilities.

See the [OWASP Testing
Guide](:Category:OWASP_Testing_Project "wikilink") article on how to
[Test for SQL
Injection](Testing_for_SQL_Injection_\(OWASP-DV-005\) "wikilink")
Vulnerabilities.

## References

  - <http://www.cgisecurity.com/questions/blindsql.shtml>
  - <http://www.imperva.com/application_defense_center/white_papers/blind_sql_server_injection.html>
  - <http://www.securitydocs.com/library/2651>
  - <http://seclists.org/bugtraq/2005/Feb/0288.html>
  - <http://ferruh.mavituna.com/makale/sql-injection-cheatsheet/>

**Online Resources**

  - [more Advanced SQL
    Injection](http://www.nccgroup.com/Libraries/Document_Downloads/more__Advanced_SQL_Injection.sflb.ashx)
    - by NGS
  - [Blind SQL Injection Automation
    Techniques](http://www.blackhat.com/presentations/bh-usa-04/bh-us-04-hotchkies/bh-us-04-hotchkies.pdf)
    - Black Hat Pdf
  - [Blind Sql-Injection in MySQL
    Databases](http://seclists.org/lists/bugtraq/2005/Feb/0288.html)
  - [Cgisecurity.com: What is Blind SQL
    Injection?](http://www.cgisecurity.com/questions/blindsql.shtml)
  - Kevin Spett from SPI Dynamics:
    <http://www.net-security.org/dl/articles/Blind_SQLInjection.pdf>
  - <http://www.imperva.com/resources/whitepapers.asp?t=ADC>
  - [Advanced SQL
    Injection](https://www.owasp.org/images/7/74/Advanced_SQL_Injection.ppt)

**Tools**

  - [SQL Power Injector](http://www.sqlpowerinjector.com/)
  - [Absinthe :: Automated Blind SQL
    Injection](http://www.0x90.org/releases/absinthe/) // ver1.3.1
  - [SQLBrute - Multi Threaded Blind SQL Injection
    Bruteforcer](http://www.securiteam.com/tools/5IP0L20I0E.html) in
    Python
  - [SQLiX - SQL Injection
    Scanner](:Category:OWASP_SQLiX_Project "wikilink") in Perl
  - [sqlmap, automatic SQL injection tool](http://sqlmap.org/) in Python
  - [bsqlbf, a blind SQL injection
    tool](https://code.google.com/p/bsqlbf-v2/) in Perl

[Category:OWASP ASDR Project](Category:OWASP_ASDR_Project "wikilink")
[Category:Security Focus Area](Category:Security_Focus_Area "wikilink")
[Category:Injection](Category:Injection "wikilink") [Category:
Attack](Category:_Attack "wikilink")