__NOTOC__

# Board Meetings

[Bylaws](https://www.owasp.org/index.php/About_OWASP#OWASP_Foundation_Bylaws)
are the most important legal document of any organization. Bylaws
outline in writing the day-to-day rules for your organization and
provide comprehensive guidelines to keep things running smoothly. If you
want to understand the business of OWASP Foundation the best way to do
that would be to examine the bylaws the the [990 forms filed with the
United States Government as a non-profit
annually.](https://www.owasp.org/index.php/About_OWASP#Form_990_Documents)

[`Global``
 ``Bylaws`](https://www.owasp.org/index.php/About_OWASP#OWASP_Foundation_Bylaws)

## Upcoming 2019 Meetings

  - [April 29, 2019](April_2019 "wikilink") 11 AM US Pacific - [other
    time
    zones](https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/meetingdetails.html?year=2019&month=4&day=15&hour=18&min=0&sec=0&p1=16&p2=919&p3=78&p4=136&p5=137&p6=676)
  - [May 21, 2019](May_2019 "wikilink") 11 AM US Pacific - [other time
    zones](https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/meetingdetails.html?year=2019&month=5&day=20&hour=18&min=0&sec=0&p1=16&p2=919&p3=78&p4=136&p5=137&p6=676)
  - [June 18, 2019](June_2019 "wikilink") 11 AM US Pacific - [other time
    zones](https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/meetingdetails.html?year=2019&month=6&day=17&hour=18&min=0&sec=0&p1=16&p2=919&p3=78&p4=136&p5=137&p6=676)
  - [July 16, 2019](July_2019 "wikilink") 11 AM US Pacific - [other time
    zones](https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/meetingdetails.html?year=2019&month=7&day=15&hour=18&min=0&sec=0&p1=16&p2=919&p3=78&p4=136&p5=137&p6=676)
  - [August 20, 2019](August_2019 "wikilink") 11 AM US Pacific - [other
    time
    zones](https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/meetingdetails.html?year=2019&month=8&day=19&hour=18&min=0&sec=0&p1=16&p2=919&p3=78&p4=136&p5=137&p6=676)
  - [September 17, 2019](September_2019 "wikilink") 11 AM US Pacific -
    [other time
    zones](https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/meetingdetails.html?year=2019&month=9&day=16&hour=18&min=0&sec=0&p1=16&p2=919&p3=78&p4=136&p5=137&p6=676)
  - [October 22, 2019](October_2019 "wikilink") 11 AM US Pacific -
    [other time
    zones](https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/meetingdetails.html?year=2019&month=10&day=21&hour=18&min=0&sec=0&p1=16&p2=919&p3=78&p4=136&p5=137&p6=676)
  - [November 29, 2019](November_2019 "wikilink") 11 AM US Pacific -
    [other time
    zones](https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/meetingdetails.html?year=2019&month=11&day=18&hour=19&min=0&sec=0&p1=16&p2=919&p3=78&p4=136&p5=137&p6=676)
  - [December 24, 2019](December_2019 "wikilink") 11 AM US Pacific -
    [other time
    zones](https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/meetingdetails.html?year=2019&month=12&day=23&hour=19&min=0&sec=0&p1=16&p2=919&p3=78&p4=136&p5=137&p6=676)

All board meeting notes that include actions as a result will be tracked
in a single document for all meetings [click
here](https://docs.google.com/a/owasp.org/document/d/1aPmftVZH3-G96J6-wrpynwwZhBHtREe5a7g8owVYUag/edit?usp=sharing)

## 2018 Elected by Membership, Global Board Members

[Board Member, Meeting Attendance
Tracking](https://docs.google.com/a/owasp.org/spreadsheet/ccc?key=0ApZ9zE0hx0LNdG5uRzNYZE8ycDFabnBWNkU4SFpwREE)

[Historical Board Members by
Year](https://www.owasp.org/index.php/OWASP_Board_History)


![120 px](Owasp_logo_icon.jpg "120 px")
\==== [Martin Knobloch](User:Knoblochmartin "wikilink"): Chair ====

The Chairman of the Board shall serve as the principal executive officer
of the Foundation.

Fiduciary responsibilities: He/She shall, in general, supervise and
control all of the business and affairs of the Foundation. He/She will
monitor financial planning and financial reports He/She or he may sign,
with the Secretary or any other proper officer of the Foundation
thereunto authorized by the Board of Directors, any deeds, mortgages,
bonds, contracts, or other instruments which the Board of Directors has
authorized to be executed, except in cases where the signing and
execution thereof shall be expressly delegated by the Board of Directors
or by these Bylaws to some other officer or agent of the Foundation, or
shall be required by law to be otherwise signed or executed;

Leadership and Direction: provides leadership to the Board of Directors
with regards to policy setting and strategic planning. He/She helps
guide and mediate board actions with respect to organizational
priorities and governance concerns, and in general shall perform all
duties incident to the office of Chairman of the Board subject to the
control of the Board of Directors.

Organizational Responsibilities: He/She plays a leading role in
fundraising activities, formally evaluate the performance of the
Foundation Director and informally evaluate the effectiveness of the
board members. An annual, overall evaluation of the performance of the
organization in achieving its mission will be accomplished. He or she
shall, when present, preside at all meetings of the Board of Directors,
unless otherwise delegated, and such other duties as may be prescribed
by the Board of Directors from time to time.

![120 px](Owasp_logo_icon.jpg "120 px")

#### [Owen Pendlebury](Owen_Pendlebury_2017_Bio_%26_Why_Me%3F "wikilink"): Vice Chair

Performs Chair responsibilities when the Chair cannot be available,
works closely with Chair and other Board Members, participates closely
with Chair to develop and implement officer transition plans, performs
other responsibilities as assigned by the Board. ­


![120 px](Owasp_logo_icon.jpg "120 px")
\==== [Sherif
Mansour](Sherif_Mansour_2017_Bio_%26_Why_Me%3F "wikilink"):
Treasurer====

Treasurer ­manages finances of the organization, administers fiscal
matters of the organization, provides annual budget to the board for
member’s approval, ensures development and board review of financial
policies and procedures. ![120 px](Owasp_logo_icon.jpg "120 px")

\==== [Ofer Maor](User:Ofer_Maor "wikilink"): Secretary ====

Maintains records of the board and ensures effective management of
organization’s records, manages minutes of board meetings, ensures
minutes are distributed shortly after each meeting, is sufficiently
familiar with legal documents (articles, by­laws, IRS letters, etc.) to
note applicability during meetings; is the custodian of the corporate
records and of the seal of the Foundation and see that the seal of the
Foundation is affixed to all documents, the execution of which on behalf
of the Foundation under its seal is duly authorized; keeps a register of
the post office address of each Director which shall be furnished to the
Secretary by such Director; and, in general perform all duties incident
to the office of the Secretary and such other duties as from time to
time may be assigned to him by the Chairman of the Board or by the
Board.
![120 px](Owasp_logo_icon.jpg "120 px")
\==== [Chenxi Wang,
Ph.D.](Chenxi_Wang,_Ph.D._\(Forrester_Research\) "wikilink"): Member at
Large====


![120 px](Owasp_logo_icon.jpg "120 px")

#### [Richard Greenberg](User:Richard_greenberg "wikilink"): Member at Large



![120 px](Owasp_logo_icon.jpg "120 px")
\====[Gary Robinson](Gary_Robinson_2018_Bio_and_Why_me "wikilink"):
Member at Large ====




# How Meetings Operate

**CALL TO ORDER**

The first order of business is for the chair to announce the call to
order, along with the time. The secretary enters the time of the call to
order in the minutes. After the meeting is called to order, the board
chair may make welcoming remarks, ask for introductions, or read the
organization’s mission and vision statements.

**CHANGES TO THE AGENDA**

The second order of business is for the chair to ask for changes to the
agenda. Additions and deletions to the agenda will be made at this time.
Having no changes, the agenda moves to approving the prior meeting’s
minutes.

**APPROVAL OF MINUTES**

The third item on the agenda should list “Approval of Minutes” along
with the date of the most recent meeting. In most cases, board members
should have received a copy of the minutes prior to the meeting. If they
have not contacted the secretary prior to the meeting with corrections
or changes to the minutes, they have to opportunity to make them during
this item on the agenda.

Board members have an ethical and legal responsibility to make sure that
the recording of the minutes accurately reflect the board’s business.

**REPORTS**

The fourth item on the agenda is the reports. This first report should
be a report from the Executive Director. This report should include a
review of operations and projects. The Executive Director should give
board members on overview of the business outlook including positive and
negative trends, major initiatives, business updates, and other aspects
of the business.

Following the Executive Director report, the Finance Director gives a
report. Board members should make an effort to understand the financial
reports so that they can identify potential financial threats.
Understanding financial reports may also generate discussion about
potential opportunities.

Subsequent reports may be given by committee chairs.

**OLD BUSINESS**

Items should include past business items that are unresolved, need
further discussion, or require a board vote. Items may be tabled or
referred to committee for further exploration.

**NEW BUSINESS**

Board members should have a discussion about new business items and
identify a plan to take action. This may include tabling them, delaying
action to a future date, or referring them to a committee.

**COMMENTS, ANNOUNCEMENTS, AND OTHER BUSINESS**

At this point in the agenda, members may make announcements, such as
offering congratulations or condolences, or make other special
announcements. Any other business may be brought up at this time, for
example, items that may need to be added to the next meeting’s agenda.

**ADJOURNMENT**

This is a formal closing of the meeting by the board chair. He should
state the time that the meeting closed, so that the secretary may
including it in the board minutes. The date of the next meeting should
follow the adjournment item, so that board members will be reminded to
put it on their calendars.

For more information about the Roberts Rules of Order see this [CHEAT
SHEET](http://www.umecra.com/BylawsAndRules/Roberts%20Rules%20Handout.pdf)

# Voting History

### Historical Votes on Motions

The purpose of this is to track the position on each motion as presented
and how the elected official voted on the motion. This is useful for the
membership to review how elected officials voted on items that effect
the organization and its
[bylaws](https://www.owasp.org/index.php/OWASP_Foundation_ByLaws). A
motion is a request for action (budget requests, policy changes, new
partnerships etc.) they can be presented by ANYONE to the board such as
a member of the public, a member of the OWASP Foundation but does
require a sponsor on the Board. That sponsor will present the motion to
the board at least (10) working days in advance so it can be read in
advance of the meeting. If appropriate a motion can be presented based
to take action on the motion as written. For a vote to be called and
action to be taken a second board member is required to carry the
business to vote. On completion of the discussion the chairman will call
for a vote to the motion YES, NO, ABSTAIN. For more details on this
process try this [CHEAT
SHEET](http://www.umecra.com/BylawsAndRules/Roberts%20Rules%20Handout.pdf)

[`Historical``   ``Board``
 ``Votes`](https://www.owasp.org/index.php/OWASP_Board_Votes)

Note that if a motion is presented and is voted on and it is approved
action will be taken to implement the motion. If the motion fails it can
be resubmitted and the process starts again as if it is a new motion.

### Attendance Tracker

This is used to keep track that Board Members meet 75% attendance
requirements as noted in section 3.03 of the organization bylaws. A
meeting is logged as attended if the board member attends the entire
meeting as scheduled from the call to order until it is adjourned, this
includes executive session if applicable that is closed to the
membership and general public for reasons related to human resources and
legal issues that require it by law or for the good of the OWASP
Foundation Inc. -

[`Board``   ``Meeting``   ``Attendance``
 ``Tracker`](https://docs.google.com/a/owasp.org/spreadsheet/ccc?key=0ApZ9zE0hx0LNdG5uRzNYZE8ycDFabnBWNkU4SFpwREE)

# Historical Meeting Archive

## Archive 2019

  - [March 18, 2019](March_2019 "wikilink") 11 AM US Pacific - [other
    time
    zones](https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/meetingdetails.html?year=2019&month=3&day=18&hour=18&min=0&sec=0&p1=16&p2=919&p3=78&p4=136&p5=137&p6=676)
  - [February 18, 2019](February_2019 "wikilink") 11 AM US Pacific -
    [other time
    zones](https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/meetingdetails.html?year=2019&month=2&day=18&hour=19&min=0&sec=0&p1=16&p2=919&)
  - [January 23rd, 2019](January_2019 "wikilink") - 3:00 PM to 4:00 PM
    PST([time
    zones](https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/meetingdetails.html?year=2019&month=1&day=23&hour=23&min=0&sec=0&p1=179&p2=24&p3=16&p4=136&p5=224))

## Archive 2018

  - [December 19th, 2018](December_2018 "wikilink") - 1:00 PM to 2:30 PM
    EST ([time
    zones](https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/meetingdetails.html?year=2018&month=12&day=19&hour=19&min=0&sec=0&p1=179&p2=24&p3=16&p4=136&p5=224))
  - [November 21, 2018](November_2018 "wikilink") - 12:00 PM to 1:30 PM
    EST ([time
    zones](https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/meetingdetails.html?year=2018&month=11&day=21&hour=17&min=0&sec=0&p1=179&p2=24&p3=16&p4=136&p5=224))
  - [October 10, 2018](October_2018 "wikilink") - 3:00 to 4:30 PM EDT
    ([time
    zones](https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/meetingdetails.html?year=2018&month=10&day=10&hour=19&min=0&sec=0&p1=179&p2=24&p3=16&p4=136&p5=224))
    at AppSec USA 2018 Conference
  - [September 27, 2018](September_2018 "wikilink") - 2:00 PM to 3:30 PM
    EDT ([time
    zones](https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/meetingdetails.html?year=2018&month=9&day=19&hour=18&min=0&sec=0&p1=179&p2=24&p3=16&p4=136&p5=224))
  - [August 15, 2018](August_2018 "wikilink") - 1:00 PM to 2:30 PM EDT
    ([time
    zones](https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/meetingdetails.html?year=2018&month=8&day=15&hour=17&min=0&sec=0&p1=179&p2=24&p3=16&p4=136&p5=224))
  - [July 4th, 2018](July_4th,_2018 "wikilink") - during AppSec EU 2018
  - [June_19,_2018](June_19,_2018 "wikilink") - [Click Here for
    Meeting Time in Your
    Timezone](https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/meetingdetails.html?year=2018&month=6&day=19&hour=18&min=0&sec=0&p1=16&p2=78&p3=136&p4=179&p5=224&p6=102&p7=236&p8=152)
  - [May 15, 2018](May_15,_2018 "wikilink") - [Click Here for Meeting
    Time in Your
    Timezone](https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/meetingdetails.html?year=2018&month=5&day=15&hour=19&min=0&sec=0&p1=16&p2=78&p3=136&p4=179&p5=224&p6=102&p7=236&p8=152)
  - [April 4, 2018](April_4,_2018 "wikilink") - [TimeZone
    Converter](https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/meetingdetails.html?year=2018&month=4&day=4&hour=14&min=0&sec=0&p1=16&p2=78&p3=136&p4=179&p5=224&p6=102&p7=236&p8=152)
  - [March 7, 2018](March_7,_2018 "wikilink") - 3:00pm - 4:00pm EST -
    [Time
    Converter](https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/converted.html?iso=20180307T21&p1=16&p2=16&p3=676&p4=136&p5=78&p6=179&p7=224&p8=240&p9=102)
  - [February 7, 2018](February_7,_2018 "wikilink") - [TimeZone
    Converter](https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/meetingdetails.html?year=2018&month=2&day=7&hour=20&min=0&sec=0&p1=16&p2=179&p3=78&p4=102&p5=224&p6=136&p7=152&p8=676)
  - [January 24, 2018](January_24,_2018 "wikilink"), [TimeZone
    Converter](https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?msg=OWASP+Board+Meeting%2C+January+24+2018&iso=20180124T19&p1=16&ah=1&am=30)

## Archive 2017

  - [December 6, 2017](December_6,_2017 "wikilink"), 15:00-16:30 PST -
    [TimeZone
    Converter](http://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/meetingdetails.html?year=2017&month=12&day=06&hour=23&min=0&sec=0&p1=224&p2=24&p3=263&p4=78&p5=37&p6=102&p7=152)
  - [November 8, 2017](November_8,_2017 "wikilink"), 07:00-08:30 PST -
    [TimeZone
    Converter](https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/meetingdetails.html?year=2017&month=11&day=8&hour=15&min=0&sec=0&p1=224&p2=24&p3=263&p4=78&p5=37&p6=102&p7=152)
  - [October 11, 2017](October_11,_2017 "wikilink"), 15:00 - 17:30 PDT -
    [TimeZone
    Converter](http://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/meetingdetails.html?year=2017&month=10&day=11&hour=22&min=0&sec=0&p1=224&p2=24&p3=263&p4=78&p5=37&p6=102&p7=152)
  - [September 19, 2017](September_19,_2017 "wikilink") 15:00-17:30 PDT,
    in Orlando at AppSecUSA - [TimeZone
    Converter](https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/meetingdetails.html?year=2017&month=9&day=19&hour=22&min=0&sec=0&p1=224&p2=24&p3=263&p4=78&p5=37&p6=102&p7=152)
  - [September 6, 2017](September_6,_2017 "wikilink") 07:00-08:30 PDT -
    [TimeZone
    Converter](http://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/meetingdetails.html?year=2017&month=09&day=06&hour=14&min=0&sec=0&p1=224&p2=24&p3=263&p4=78&p5=37&p6=102&p7=152)
    (Cancelled for interviews)
  - [August 9, 2017](August_9,_2017 "wikilink"), 16:00-17:30 PDT -
    [TimeZone
    Converter](http://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/meetingdetails.html?year=2017&month=08&day=09&hour=23&min=0&sec=0&p1=224&p2=24&p3=263&p4=78&p5=37&p6=102&p7=152)
  - [July 5, 2017](July_5,_2017 "wikilink"), 07:00-08:00 PDT - [TimeZone
    Converter](http://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/meetingdetails.html?year=2017&month=07&day=05&hour=14&min=0&sec=0&p1=224&p2=24&p3=263&p4=78&p5=37&p6=102&p7=152)
  - [June 7, 2017](June_7,_2017 "wikilink"), 18:00-21:00 CEST -
    [TimeZone
    Converter](http://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/meetingdetails.html?year=2017&month=06&day=07&hour=16&min=0&sec=0&p1=224&p2=24&p3=263&p4=78&p5=37&p6=102&p7=152)
  - [May 9, 2017](May_9,_2017 "wikilink"), 18:00-19:30 IST, in Belfast
    at AppSecEU - [TimeZone
    Converter](https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/meetingdetails.html?year=2017&month=5&day=9&hour=17&min=0&sec=0&p1=224&p2=24&p3=263&p4=78&p5=37&p6=102&p7=152)
  - [April 12, 2017](April_12,_2017 "wikilink"), 16:00-17:00 PDT -
    [TimeZone
    Converter](https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/meetingdetails.html?year=2017&month=04&day=12&hour=23&min=0&sec=0&p1=224&p2=24&p3=263&p4=78&p5=37&p6=102&p7=152)
    (**Cancelled** [Notice by Matt
    Konda](http://lists.owasp.org/pipermail/owasp-board/2017-April/017969.html))
  - [March 22, 2017](March_22,_2017 "wikilink") 06:00-07:30 PST -
    [TimeZone
    Converter](https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/meetingdetails.html?year=2017&month=3&day=22&hour=13&min=0&sec=0&p1=224&p2=24&p3=263&p4=78&p5=37&p6=102&p7=152)
    - \*Special Meeting to approve the 2017 Budget\*
  - [March 8, 2017](March_8,_2017 "wikilink"), 06:00-07:30 PST -
    [TimeZone
    Converter](http://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/meetingdetails.html?year=2017&month=03&day=08&hour=23&min=0&sec=0&p1=224&p2=24&p3=263&p4=78&p5=37&p6=102&p7=152)
  - [February 8, 2017](February_8,_2017 "wikilink"), 15:00-16:30 PST -
    [TimeZone
    Converter](http://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/meetingdetails.html?year=2017&month=02&day=08&hour=23&min=0&sec=0&p1=224&p2=24&p3=263&p4=78&p5=37&p6=102&p7=152)
  - [January 11, 2017](January_11,_2017 "wikilink"), 14:00-15:30 PST -
    [TimeZone
    Converter](https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/meetingdetails.html?year=2017&month=1&day=10&hour=22&min=0&sec=0&p1=224&p2=24&p3=263&p4=78&p5=37&p6=102&p7=152)

## Archive for 2016 Meetings

  - [December 14, 2016](December_14,_2016 "wikilink"), 15:00-16:30 PST -
    [TimeZone
    Converter](http://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/meetingdetails.html?year=2016&month=12&day=14&hour=23&min=0&sec=0&p1=224&p2=24&p3=263&p4=78&p5=37&p6=102&p7=152)
  - [November 8, 2016](November_8,_2016 "wikilink"), 15:00-16:30 PST -
    [TimeZone
    Converter](http://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/meetingdetails.html?year=2016&month=11&day=09&hour=23&min=0&sec=0&p1=224&p2=24&p3=263&p4=78&p5=37&p6=102&p7=152)
  - CANCELLED - [November 30, 2016](November_30,_2016 "wikilink"),
    15:00-16:30 PST - placeholder only optional if needed - [TimeZone
    Converter](http://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/meetingdetails.html?year=2016&month=11&day=30&hour=23&min=0&sec=0&p1=224&p2=24&p3=263&p4=78&p5=37&p6=102&p7=152)
  - [October 11, 2016](October_11,_2016 "wikilink"), at AppSecUSA 18:00
    - 21:00 EDT - [TimeZone
    Converter](http://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/meetingdetails.html?year=2016&month=10&day=11&hour=22&min=0&sec=0&p1=224&p2=24&p3=263&p4=78&p5=37&p6=102&p7=152)
  - [September 21, 2016](September_21,_2016 "wikilink") 07:00-08:30 PDT
    - [TimeZone
    Converter](http://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/meetingdetails.html?year=2016&month=09&day=21&hour=14&min=0&sec=0&p1=224&p2=24&p3=263&p4=78&p5=37&p6=102&p7=152)
  - [August 23, 2016](August_23,_2016 "wikilink"), 16:00-17:00 PDT -
    [TimeZone
    Converter](http://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/meetingdetails.html?year=2016&month=08&day=23&hour=23&min=0&sec=0&p1=224&p2=24&p3=263&p4=78&p5=37&p6=102&p7=152)
  - [July 1, 2016](July_1,_2016 "wikilink"), 18:00-21:00 CEST, in Rome
    at AppSecEU - [TimeZone
    Converter](http://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/meetingdetails.html?year=2016&month=07&day=01&hour=16&min=0&sec=0&p1=224&p2=24&p3=263&p4=78&p5=37&p6=102&p7=152)
  - [July 27, 2016](July_27,_2016 "wikilink"), 07:00-08:00 PDT -
    [TimeZone
    Converter](http://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/meetingdetails.html?year=2016&month=07&day=27&hour=14&min=0&sec=0&p1=224&p2=24&p3=263&p4=78&p5=37&p6=102&p7=152)
  - [May 18, 2016](May_18,_2016 "wikilink"), 07:00-08:30 PDT - [TimeZone
    Converter](http://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/meetingdetails.html?year=2016&month=05&day=18&hour=14&min=0&sec=0&p1=224&p2=24&p3=263&p4=78&p5=37&p6=102&p7=152)
  - [April 20, 2016](April_20,_2016 "wikilink"), 16:00-17:00 PDT -
    [TimeZone
    Converter](http://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/meetingdetails.html?year=2016&month=04&day=20&hour=23&min=0&sec=0&p1=224&p2=24&p3=263&p4=78&p5=37&p6=102&p7=152)
  - [March 16, 2016](March_16,_2016 "wikilink"), 16:00-17:00 PST -
    [TimeZone
    Converter](http://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/meetingdetails.html?year=2016&month=03&day=16&hour=23&min=0&sec=0&p1=224&p2=24&p3=263&p4=78&p5=37&p6=102&p7=152)
  - [February 17, 2016](February_17,_2016 "wikilink"), 15:00-16:30 PST -
    [TimeZone
    Converter](http://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/meetingdetails.html?year=2016&month=02&day=17&hour=23&min=0&sec=0&p1=224&p2=24&p3=263&p4=78&p5=37&p6=102&p7=152)
  - [January 13, 2016](January_13,_2016 "wikilink"), 16:00-17:30 PST -
    [TimeZone
    Converter](http://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/meetingdetails.html?year=2016&month=01&day=14&hour=00&min=0&sec=0&p1=224&p2=24&p3=263&p4=78&p5=37&p6=102&p7=152)

## Archive for 2015 Meetings

  - [December 9, 2015](December_9,_2015 "wikilink"), 15:00-17:00 PST
  - [November 18, 2015](November_18,_2015 "wikilink"), 14:00-15:30 PST
  - [November 4, 2015](November_4,_2015 "wikilink"), 12:00-13:30 PST
  - [October 14, 2015](October_14,_2015 "wikilink"), 14:00-15:00 PDT
  - [September 25, 2015](September_25,_2015 "wikilink") at AppSecUSA
    18:00 - 20:00 PST
  - [August 12, 2015](August_12,_2015 "wikilink"), 16:00-17:00 PST
  - [July 22, 2015](July_22,_2015 "wikilink"), 14:00-15:00 PDT
  - [June 24, 2015](June_24,_2015 "wikilink"), 14:00-15:00 PDT
  - [May 22, 2015](May_22,_2015 "wikilink"), 18:00-20:00 CEST in
    Amsterdam @ AppSec-EU , 9:00am-11:00am PST;
  - [April 29, 2015](April_29,_2015 "wikilink"), 12:00-13:00 PST
  - [March 25, 2015](March_25,_2015 "wikilink"), 12:00-13:00 PST
  - [February 11, 2015](February_11,_2015 "wikilink"), 16:00-17:00 PST
  - [January 14, 2015](January_14,_2015 "wikilink"), 9am-10am PST

## Archive for 2014 Meetings

  - [December 10, 2014](December_10,_2014 "wikilink"), 9am-10am PST
  - [November 12, 2014](November_12,_2014 "wikilink"), 9am - 10am PST
  - [October 8, 2014](October_8,_2014 "wikilink"), 9am-10am PST
  - [September 16, 2014](September_16,_2014 "wikilink"), 6pm - 9pm MST,
    In person at Appsec USA
  - [August 13, 2014](August_13,_2014 "wikilink"), 9am-10am PST
  - [July 9, 2014](July_9,_2014 "wikilink"), 9am-10am PST
  - [June 27, 2014](June_27,_2014 "wikilink"), 8am - 4 pm BST, In person
    at AppSec Europe
  - [April 30, 2014](April_30,_2014 "wikilink"),9am - 12pm PST
  - [March 3, 2014](March_3,_2014 "wikilink"), 7am - 10am PST
  - [February 24, 2014](February_24,_2014 "wikilink"), 8am - 10am PST

## Archive for 2013 Meetings

  - [December 9, 2013](December_9,_2013 "wikilink")

<!-- end list -->

  - December 2, 2013 - Special Board Meeting - [2014
    Budget](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheet/ccc?key=0ApZ9zE0hx0LNdGdJZ1BIaEZkc2V1QV81NmJ4dnI0R1E&usp=sharing)
    walk through, Q & A (no meeting notes)

<!-- end list -->

  - [November 22, 2013](November_22,_2013 "wikilink") - In person
    meeting at AppSec USA - New York, NY

<!-- end list -->

  - November 11, 2013 - cancelled due to in person meeting on Nov. 22

<!-- end list -->

  - [October 14, 2013](October_14,_2013 "wikilink")

<!-- end list -->

  - [September 9, 2013](September_9,_2013 "wikilink")

<!-- end list -->

  - [In person meeting at AppSec EU - Hamburg, Germany; August
    19-24](In_person_meeting_at_AppSec_EU_-_Hamburg,_Germany;_August_19-24 "wikilink")

<!-- end list -->

  - August 12, 2013 - canceled due to in person meeting on Aug 19

<!-- end list -->

  - [July 8, 2013](July_8,_2013 "wikilink")

<!-- end list -->

  - [June 10, 2013](June_10,_2013 "wikilink")

<!-- end list -->

  - [May 31, 2013](May_31,_2013 "wikilink")

<!-- end list -->

  - [May 13, 2013](May_13,_2013 "wikilink")

<!-- end list -->

  - [April 8, 2013](April_8,_2013 "wikilink")

<!-- end list -->

  - [March 11, 2013](March_11,_2013 "wikilink")

<!-- end list -->

  - [February 11, 2013](February_11,_2013 "wikilink")

<!-- end list -->

  - [January 14, 2013](January_14,_2013 "wikilink")

## Archive for 2012 Meetings

[Board Meeting Attendance
Tracking](https://docs.google.com/a/owasp.org/spreadsheet/ccc?key=0ApZ9zE0hx0LNdG5uRzNYZE8ycDFabnBWNkU4SFpwREE)

OWASP Foundation
[ByLaws](https://www.owasp.org/images/a/ae/2012ByLawsFINAL.pdf)

[Global
Committees](https://www.owasp.org/index.php/Global_Committee_Pages)

  - [January 9, 2012](January_9,_2012 "wikilink")

<!-- end list -->

  - [February 6, 2012](February_6,_2012 "wikilink")

<!-- end list -->

  - [February 15, 2012](February_15,_2012 "wikilink")

<!-- end list -->

  - [March 12, 2012](March_12,_2012 "wikilink")

<!-- end list -->

  - [April 5, 2012](April_5,_2012 "wikilink")

<!-- end list -->

  - [May 14,2012](May_14,2012 "wikilink")

<!-- end list -->

  - [June 11, 2012](June_11,_2012 "wikilink")

<!-- end list -->

  - [July 11, 2012](July_11,_2012 "wikilink")

<!-- end list -->

  - [Aug 13, 2012](Aug_13,_2012 "wikilink")

<!-- end list -->

  - [Sept 10, 2012](Sept_10,_2012 "wikilink")

<!-- end list -->

  - [Oct 8, 2012](Oct_8,_2012 "wikilink")

<!-- end list -->

  - [Oct 24, 2012](Oct_24,_2012 "wikilink")

<!-- end list -->

  - [Nov 12, 2012](Nov_12,_2012 "wikilink")

<!-- end list -->

  - [Nov 26, 2012](Nov_26,_2012 "wikilink") - 2013 Budget Focused

<!-- end list -->

  - [Dec 10, 2012](Dec_10,_2012 "wikilink")

<!-- end list -->

  - [Dec 27, 2012](Dec_27,_2012 "wikilink") - 2013 Budget Focused

## Archive for 2011 Meetings

  - [January 3, 2011](January_3,_2011 "wikilink")

<!-- end list -->

  - [March 7, 2011](March_7,_2011 "wikilink")

<!-- end list -->

  - [April_4_2011](April_4_2011 "wikilink")

<!-- end list -->

  - [May_2_2011](May_2_2011 "wikilink")

<!-- end list -->

  - [June 6, 2011](June_6,_2011 "wikilink")

<!-- end list -->

  - [July 11, 2011](July_11,_2011 "wikilink")

<!-- end list -->

  - [August 8, 2011](August_8,_2011 "wikilink")

<!-- end list -->

  - [September 6, 2011](September_6,_2011 "wikilink")

<!-- end list -->

  - [September 20, 2011](September_20,_2011 "wikilink")

<!-- end list -->

  - [September 22, 2011](September_22,_2011 "wikilink")

<!-- end list -->

  - [October 10, 2011](October_10,_2011 "wikilink")

<!-- end list -->

  - [November 14, 2011](November_14,_2011 "wikilink")

<!-- end list -->

  - [December 5, 2011](December_5,_2011 "wikilink")

## Minutes for 2011 Meetings

<hr />

  - [Board Votes
    Historical](https://www.owasp.org/index.php/OWASP_Board_Votes)

<hr />

  - [Minutes January 3, 2011](Minutes_January_3,_2011 "wikilink")

<!-- end list -->

  - [Minutes March 8, 2011](Minutes_March_8,_2011 "wikilink")

<!-- end list -->

  - [Minutes April 4, 2011](Minutes_April_4,_2011 "wikilink")

<!-- end list -->

  - [Minutes May 2, 2011](Minutes_May_2,_2011 "wikilink")

<!-- end list -->

  - [June 6 2011](https://docs.google.com/a/owasp.org/document/d/1VD9ZHEwht9tmM8FKEQ6DBrtmL_gTAhSSnQhiFXYkJ7I/edit?hl=en_US&authkey=CIavkP4B)

<!-- end list -->

  - [July 11 2011](https://docs.google.com/a/owasp.org/document/d/1VMwYrP6owtZ-SchBxUcWTIF-ITvzUX8PjUkLPwr2ipg/edit?hl=en_US&authkey=CIGTx5sD)

<!-- end list -->

  - [August 8, 2011](https://docs.google.com/a/owasp.org/document/d/1CLu9aQpS7LdeX87rJ5N9cuJ-RGGVzDWf34l6gdMml7M/edit?hl=en_US&authkey=CI-U5qEP)

<!-- end list -->

  - [September 6, 2011](https://docs.google.com/a/owasp.org/document/d/1HM32VcvWb0hizD5_mhWMULLaouzuRgA3ZYjODRZwyAs/edit?hl=en_US)

<!-- end list -->

  - [October 10, 2011](https://docs.google.com/a/owasp.org/document/d/1Y-8tZisUZM5ZKP8AxJqvkiNtFanVFM0m--bMG2PZ3ww/edit)

<!-- end list -->

  - [November 14, 2011](https://docs.google.com/a/owasp.org/document/d/13-aHX2pSUXjCP8ivsbls6u1VX1BVSYewyMUH8LI7zpQ/edit)

## Archive for 2010 Meetings

  - [January 5, 2010](January_5,_2010 "wikilink")

<!-- end list -->

  - [February 2, 2010](February_2,_2010 "wikilink")

<!-- end list -->

  - [March 2, 2010](March_2,_2010 "wikilink")
    <span style="color:blue">Postponed until March 9, 2010</span>

<!-- end list -->

  - [April 6, 2010](April_6,_2010 "wikilink")

<!-- end list -->

  - [May 4, 2010](May_4,_2010 "wikilink")

<!-- end list -->

  - [June 7, 2010](June_7,_2010 "wikilink")

<!-- end list -->

  - [July 12, 2010](July_12,_2010 "wikilink")

<!-- end list -->

  - [August 2, 2010](August_2,_2010 "wikilink")

<!-- end list -->

  - [September 8, 2010](September_8,_2010 "wikilink")

<!-- end list -->

  - [October 11, 2010](October_11,_2010 "wikilink")

<!-- end list -->

  - [November 9, 2010](November_9,_2010 "wikilink")

<!-- end list -->

  - [December_6_2010](December_6_2010 "wikilink")

## Archive of 2010 Meetings

  - [Jan 5, 2010](Jan_5,_2010 "wikilink")

<!-- end list -->

  - [Feb 2, 2010](Feb_2,_2010 "wikilink")

<!-- end list -->

  - [March 2, 2010](March_2,_2010 "wikilink")

<!-- end list -->

  - [Minutes April 6, 2010](Minutes_April_6,_2010 "wikilink")

<!-- end list -->

  - [Minutes May 11, 2010](Minutes_May_11,_2010 "wikilink")

<!-- end list -->

  - [Minutes June 7, 2010](Minutes_June_7,_2010 "wikilink")

<!-- end list -->

  - [Minutes July 12, 2010](Minutes_July_12,_2010 "wikilink")

<!-- end list -->

  - [Minutes October 11, 2010](Minutes_October_11,_2010 "wikilink")

<!-- end list -->

  - [Minutes November 9, 2010](Minutes_November_9,_2010 "wikilink")

<!-- end list -->

  - [Minutes_December_6,_2010](Minutes_December_6,_2010 "wikilink")

<!-- end list -->

  - [OWASP Board Meetings January
    Agenda](OWASP_Board_Meetings_January_Agenda "wikilink")
  - [OWASP Board Meetings February
    Agenda](OWASP_Board_Meetings_February_Agenda "wikilink")
  - [OWASP Board Meetings March
    Agenda](OWASP_Board_Meetings_March_Agenda "wikilink")
  - [OWASP Board Meetings April09
    Agenda](OWASP_Board_Meetings_April09_Agenda "wikilink")
  - [OWASP Board Meetings May09
    Agenda](OWASP_Board_Meetings_May09_Agenda "wikilink")
  - [OWASP Board Meetings June 09
    Agenda](OWASP_Board_Meetings_June_09_Agenda "wikilink")
  - [OWASP Board Meeting July 7, 2009
    Agenda](OWASP_Board_Meeting_July_7,_2009_Agenda "wikilink")
  - [OWASP Board Meeting August 4, 2009
    Agenda](OWASP_Board_Meeting_August_4,_2009_Agenda "wikilink")
  - [OWASP Board Meeting September 1, 2009
    Agenda](OWASP_Board_Meeting_September_1,_2009_Agenda "wikilink")
  - [OWASP Board Meeting October 6, 2009
    Agenda](OWASP_Board_Meeting_October_6,_2009_Agenda "wikilink")
  - [OWASP Board Meeting November 10, 2009
    Agenda](OWASP_Board_Meeting_November_10,_2009_Agenda "wikilink")
  - [OWASP Board Meeting December 1, 2009
    Agenda](OWASP_Board_Meeting_December_1,_2009_Agenda "wikilink")

## Archive of 2009 Meetings

  - [OWASP Board Meetings
    01-06-09](OWASP_Board_Meetings_01-06-09 "wikilink")
  - [OWASP Board Meetings
    02-03-09](OWASP_Board_Meetings_02-03-09 "wikilink")
  - [OWASP Board Meetings
    03-10-09](OWASP_Board_Meetings_03-10-09 "wikilink")
  - [OWASP Board Meetings April
    09](OWASP_Board_Meetings_April_09 "wikilink")
  - [OWASP Board Meetings May
    09](OWASP_Board_Meetings_May_09 "wikilink")
  - [OWASP Board Meetings June
    09](OWASP_Board_Meetings_June_09 "wikilink")
  - [OWASP Board Meeting July
    09](OWASP_Board_Meeting_July_09 "wikilink")
  - [OWASP Board Meeting August
    09](OWASP_Board_Meeting_August_09 "wikilink")
  - [OWASP Board Meeting September
    09](OWASP_Board_Meeting_September_09 "wikilink")
  - [OWASP Board Meeting October
    09](OWASP_Board_Meeting_October_09 "wikilink")
  - [OWASP Board Meeting December
    09](OWASP_Board_Meeting_December_09 "wikilink")

## Archive for 2008 Meetings

  - [OWASP Board Meetings March
    Agenda](OWASP_Board_Meetings_March_Agenda "wikilink")
  - [OWASP Board Meetings April
    Agenda](OWASP_Board_Meetings_April_Agenda "wikilink")
  - [OWASP Board Meetings May
    Agenda](OWASP_Board_Meetings_May_Agenda "wikilink")
  - [OWASP Board Meetings June
    Agenda](OWASP_Board_Meetings_June_Agenda "wikilink")
  - [OWASP Board Meetings July
    Agenda](OWASP_Board_Meetings_July_Agenda "wikilink")
  - [OWASP Board Meetings August
    Agenda](OWASP_Board_Meetings_August_Agenda "wikilink")
  - [OWASP Board Meetings September
    Agenda](OWASP_Board_Meetings_September_Agenda "wikilink")
  - [OWASP Board Meetings October
    Agenda](OWASP_Board_Meetings_October_Agenda "wikilink")
  - [OWASP Board Meetings December
    Agenda](OWASP_Board_Meetings_December_Agenda "wikilink")

## Archive of 2008 Meetings

  - [OWASP Board Meetings
    2-7-08](OWASP_Board_Meetings_2-7-08 "wikilink")
  - [OWASP Board Meetings
    3-6-08](OWASP_Board_Meetings_3-6-08 "wikilink")
  - [OWASP Board Meetings
    5-6-08](OWASP_Board_Meetings_5-6-08 "wikilink")
  - [OWASP Board Meetings
    6-3-08](OWASP_Board_Meetings_6-3-08 "wikilink")
  - [OWASP Board Meetings
    8-14-08](OWASP_Board_Meetings_8-14-08 "wikilink")
  - [OWASP Board Meetings
    9-2-08](OWASP_Board_Meetings_9-2-08 "wikilink")
  - [Owasp Board Meetings
    10-07-08](Owasp_Board_Meetings_10-07-08 "wikilink")
  - [Owasp Board Meetings
    11-07-08](Owasp_Board_Meetings_11-07-08 "wikilink")
  - [Owasp Board Meetings
    12-02-08](Owasp_Board_Meetings_12-02-08 "wikilink")

# Board Election Archive

All elected officers are required to [review sign and
return](https://docs.google.com/document/d/10zBT6oY2Q3B6kr6r7DGl3Cc0f5rGmQ0Slc6RYvbxmus/edit)
the following document before starting their term in office to the then
current board Secretary

[OWASP Board
History](https://www.owasp.org/index.php/OWASP_Board_History)

### 2017 Election

[2017 Board
Election](https://www.owasp.org/index.php/2017_Global_Board_of_Directors_Election)

### 2016 Election

[2016 Board
Election](https://www.owasp.org/index.php/2016_Global_Board_of_Directors_Election)

### 2015 Election

[2015 Board
Election](https://www.owasp.org/index.php/2015_Global_Board_of_Directors_Election)

### 2014 Election

[2014 Board
Election](https://www.owasp.org/index.php/2014_Board_Elections)

### 2013 Election

[2013 Board
Election](https://www.owasp.org/index.php/2013_Board_Elections)

### 2012 Election

[2012 Board
Election](https://www.owasp.org/index.php/Membership/2012_Election)

### 2011 Election

[2011 Board
Election](https://www.owasp.org/index.php/Membership/2011Election)

### 2009 Election

[2009 Board
Election](https://www.owasp.org/index.php/Board_Election_2009)

### Past OWASP Boards

[Board-2018](Board-2018 "wikilink")

[Board-2017](Board-2017 "wikilink")

[Board-2016](Board-2016 "wikilink")

[Board-2015](Board-2015 "wikilink")

[Board-2014](Board-2014 "wikilink")

[Board-2013](Board-2013 "wikilink")

[Board-2012](Board-2012 "wikilink")

[Board-2011](Board-2011 "wikilink")

# Misc.

  - Teleconference Information: \*\*CHECK MEETING INFORMATION\*\*

<!-- end list -->

  - [International Toll Free Calling
    Info](https://www.owasp.org/index.php/International_Toll_Free_Calling_Information)

<!-- end list -->

  - Meeting Template found
    [here](https://www.owasp.org/index.php/Board-Meeting-template)

<headertabs> </headertabs>