**1. VENDOR NEUTRAL**

Maintaining a unbiased and technology agnostic approach to solving
application security problems.

Everything OWASP does should be free from undo influence of commercial
interests. Input from vendors is fine, but OWASP should not produce
anything that is clearly heavily biased or influenced by a vendor and
our conferences and chapter meetings should not have talks that are
heavily biased to a particular vendor or are advertisements for that
vendor's products or services.

OWASP as an organization must always be aiming for reaching its goals
while staying vendor- and political neutral.

**2. OPENNESS**

All the products created within OWASP must be openly available for use
by everybody, without limitation.

All the OWASP community activities should be open for people to join and
understand what OWASP is about.

Open , Independent, Respectful and Focused

everything at OWASP has to be free and open to everyone. The security
industry has failed to make information about security open for too
long. This has led to some profitable consulting companies, but is not
good for the world. We need an accurate, well-organized, useful body of
knowledge that is free and open for everyone.

Everything OWASP does should be free and open. There are some caveats to
this but certainly everything we put up on our website(s) should be
free. The only thing we charge for is membership (which is voluntary)
and for attending our conferences and our conference training (which is
also voluntary).

**3. NON-PROFIT**

OWASP does need an income to support the projects and organization, but
should never be used for personal or organization monetary gain.

Everything OWASP does should be free and open. There are some caveats to
this but certainly everything we put up on our website(s) should be
free. The only thing we charge for is membership (which is voluntary)
and for attending our conferences and our conference training (which is
also voluntary).

**4. GLOBAL**

a global community of technical peers without prejudice to nation

A group of individuals working together to achieve a common goal where
rough consensus determines the actions of the group.

**5. APPLICATIONS SECURITY FOCUSED**

Everything OWASP does should be related to application security in some
way, such as tools, documentation, processes, buildling community,
education, etc. There is a W in OWASP that stands for Web, and I think
that should be our primary focus, web security, but I don't think it
should be exclusively web security.

Enable the creation of Safe Applications

a global community of technical peers without prejudice to nation

**6. COMMUNITY**

A group of individuals working together to achieve a common goal where
rough consensus determines the actions of the group

OWASP should work to include and accept as many members and projects as
possible. We should serve as the incubator of projects from which will
emerge many great things, and clearly some will not grow and thrive, but
thats OK. This also includes being an international organization.

Having the best, brightest and passionate individuals working on concert
to produce solutions to application security problems. Being the common
body of knowledge for application security.

People are donating their precious time to OWASP in their free time.
OWASP should never become a 'job', but must be a fun and engaging
community to participate in.

**7. OPEN SOURCE**

The open source model includes the concept of concurrent yet different
agendas and differing approaches in production, in contrast with more
centralized models of development such as those typically used in
commercial software companies.

A main principle and practice of open source software development is
peer production by bartering and collaboration, with the end-product,
source-material, "blueprints" and documentation available at no cost to
the public

For our projects, allowing anyone zero-cost use, access to the source
code, ability to redistribute and make derivative works.

All the products created within OWASP must be openly available for use
by everybody, without limitation.

All the OWASP community activities should be open for people to join and
understand what OWASP is about.

Connect the community and enable Serendipity, in order to accelerate the
speed of change

**8. VISIBILITY**

Public in our actions and our work. Allowing for maximum transparency
into our work and projects. Also, influencing open and transparent
actions by all the players in the software market.

Transform Security Knowledge into Bussiness Intelligence

**9. ETHICS**

  - Perform all professionalactivities and duties in accordance with all
    applicable laws and the highest ethical principles;
  - Promote the implementation of and promote compliance with standards,
    procedures, controls for application security;
  - Maintain appropriate confidentiality of proprietary or otherwise
    sensitive information encountered in the course of professional
    activities;
  - Discharge professional responsibilities with diligence and honesty;
  - To communicate openly and honestly;
  - Refrain from any activities which might constitute a conflict of
    interest or otherwise damage the reputation of employers, the
    information security profession, or the Association;
  - To maintain and affirm our objectivity and independence;
  - To reject inappropriate pressure from industry or others;
  - Not intentionally injure or impugn the professional reputation of
    practice of colleagues, clients, or employers;
  - Treat everyone with respect and dignity; and
  - To avoid relationships that impair — or may appear to impair —
    OWASP's objectivity and independence.

**10. EFFORTOCRACY**

At OWASP, anyone can take on any project that is reasonably aligned with
our overall goals. We are not a top-down bureaucracy. In fact, some have
described OWASP as upside-down – meaning that the people who do the most
work and produce the most value are promoted within the organization. We
loosely follow David Clark’s idea that we “We reject: kings, presidents
and voting. We believe in: rough consensus and running code”

**OTHER DEFINITIONS**

**Mission**-Our mission is to make application security visible, so that
people and organizations can make informed decisions about true
application security risks

**Expertise**-Having the best, brightest and passionate individuals
working on concert to produce solutions to application security
problems. Being the common body of knowledge for application security.

**Respect**-Everybody's opinion and believes must be respected within
the OWASP community. This allows for open and honest discussions on
OWASP projects and activities.

Open , Independent, Respectful and Focused

**Fun**-People are donating their precious time to OWASP in their free
time. OWASP should never become a 'job', but must be a fun and engaging
community to participate in.

**Transformative**-Transform Security Knowledge into Business
Intelligence

**Workable Applications**-Connect the community and enable Serendipity,
in order to accelerate the speed of change

Enable the creation of Safe Applications

Make Application Security InVisible to developers and Visible to buyers

**Ecosystem**-A guiding philosophy is that security is not a product, is
not a process, and cannot be forced, but is an artifact of a properly
functioning ecosystem. In the past we have focused on the major market
failure in software… visibility. But OWASP is here to help inspire,
support, and grow both the “builder” and “breaker” sides of our
ecosystem. This includes a belief in balancing implementation,
verification, and management activities – instead of just focusing on
attempts to “hack ourselves secure.”

**Enable Innovation**-We believe that security is critical to our
ability to innovate in information technology, and reject the idea that
security is opposed to usability, performance, or progress.

Embrace Responsible Commercial Activities – This is a tricky one. OWASP
supports commercial activities consistent with our goals. And it
simultaneously rejects attempts by commercial organizations to mislead,
scare, or over claim.

Civility – We will not abide abuse of our community.

**Risk Assessment**-We promote the idea that organizations can and
should take risks with information technology. Rather than fight risk
taking, we intend to help people and organizations make informed
decisions about the risks that they choose to take.

I**nclusive**-OWASP should work to include and accept as many members
and projects as possible. We should serve as the incubator of projects
from which will emerge many great things, and clearly some will not grow
and thrive, but thats OK. This also includes being an international
organization.

**Independent**-OWASP as an organization must always be aiming for
reaching its goals while staying vendor- and political neutral.

[Back to TMC page](Tesauro_Management_Counselors "wikilink")