<div style="font-size:7pt;text-align:right">

</div>

The Open Web Application Security Project (OWASP) has local chapters
around the world that help teach, learn, and inspire application
security. Our College Chapters program helps to extend application
security into colleges and universities worldwide.

## OWASP Boston NEU Student Chapter

Welcome to the Boston Northeastern University Student chapter homepage.

Our chapter is affiliated with [Northeastern
University](http://www.northeastern.edu/) and our leader is [Amirali
Sanatinia](mailto:amirali.sanatinia@owasp.org).
Boston is our sponsoring OWASP chapter and mentor.

We are in the process of setting up a local chapter mailing list. Stay
tuned\!

## Participation

OWASP Foundation ([Overview
Slides](https://docs.google.com/a/owasp.org/presentation/d/1ZgY25F0F7QgScMlB1X7LAa70LtyJql8XqcYdR4suPUo/edit#slide=id.p))
is a professional association of [global
members](https://www.owasp.org/index.php/Membership) and is and open to
anyone interested in learning more about software security. Local
chapters are run independently and guided by the
[Chapter_Leader_Handbook](Chapter_Leader_Handbook "wikilink"). As a
[501(c)(3)](http://www.owasp.org/index.php/About_OWASP) non-profit
professional association your support and sponsorship of any meeting
venue and/or refreshments is tax-deductible. Financial contributions
should only be made online using the authorized online chapter donation
button. To be a <b>SPEAKER</b> at ANY OWASP Chapter in the world simply
review the [speaker
agreement](http://www.owasp.org/index.php/Speaker_Agreement) and then
contact the local chapter leader with details of what [OWASP
PROJECT](http://www.owasp.org/index.php/Category:OWASP_Project),
independent research or related software security topic you would like
to present on.

## Sponsorship/Membership

![Btn_donate_SM.gif](Btn_donate_SM.gif "Btn_donate_SM.gif") to this
chapter or become a local chapter supporter.

Or consider the value of [Individual, Corporate, or Academic Supporter
membership](http://www.owasp.org/index.php/Membership). Ready to become
a member? ![Join_Now_BlueIcon.JPG](Join_Now_BlueIcon.JPG
"Join_Now_BlueIcon.JPG")

[Student Chapters](OWASP_Student_Chapters_Program "wikilink")

[Category:OWASP Student
Chapter](Category:OWASP_Student_Chapter "wikilink")