## Chapter Sponsor

![Security Innovation](SIlogostacked.png "Security Innovation")

![Veracode](Veracode_logo.png "Veracode")

## Boston Application Security Conference

![Boston-Banner-468x60.gif](Boston-Banner-468x60.gif
"Boston-Banner-468x60.gif") ![twitter_32.png](twitter_32.png
"twitter_32.png") BASC 2019, the Boston Application Security Conference
will take place 8:30am to 6:30pm on Saturday, October 19th at Microsoft,
5 Wayside Road, Burlington, MA. [Read
more](2019_BASC_Homepage "wikilink")

## Chapter Meetings --- Our Fifteenth Year

We now use [meetup](http://www.meetup.com/owaspboston/) to organize
meetings.

We meet whenever a speaker and a venue have available dates, 6:30 to 9
pm.

Everyone is welcome to come to any meeting, there is no signup or
joining criteria, just come if it sounds interesting. You can join the
OWASP Boston Google group at
<https://groups.google.com/a/owasp.org/forum/#!forum/boston-chapter>.
This list is very low volume (2 - 3 emails/month); it is used to remind
people about each monthly meeting, inform about local application
security events and special chapter offers.

Upcoming Meetings

**`May``   ``22,``   ``2019`**` - Watertown `[`CMD+CTRL``   ``Web``
 ``App``   ``Hacking``   ``Cyber``   ``Range``   ``6:00-9:00pm``
 ``Partnered``   ``w/Security``   ``Innovation``   ``&``
 ``Athenahealth`](https://web.securityinnovation.com/athenahealth2019)

YOU CAN ONLY REGISTER ON THE SECURITY INNOVATION REGISTRATION SITE AT
[THIS LINK](https://web.securityinnovation.com/athenahealth2019)

Location: [Athena Health
Watertown](https://goo.gl/maps/rTHhZcawAX1jYnhP7)

6PM \*sharp\*- **Just bring your computer and evil inner-doer and you
are ready to roll\!**

Want to test your skills in identifying web app vulnerabilities?  Join
OWASP Boston, Athena Health and Security Innovation as members compete
in CMD+CTRL, a web application cyber range where players exploit their
way through hundreds of vulnerabilities that lurk in business
applications today.  Success means learning quickly that attack and
defense is all about thinking on your feet. Standard capture the flag
using network and operating attack skills will not be much use here;
understanding the OWASP Top 10 risks will help you find the
vulnerabilities.

For each vulnerability you uncover, you are awarded points. Climb the
interactive leaderboard for a chance to win prizes\! CMD+CTRL is ideal
for development teams to train and develop skills, but anyone involved
in keeping your organization’s data secure can play - from developers
and managers and even CISOs.

Just bring a laptop. Pizza and soda will be provided.

Venue/Location of the event:

Athena Health 311 Arsenal St. Watertown, MA 02472

<File:Athenahealth> Watertown Map.jpg|Athenahealth Watertown Map

NOTE: <b>Park in only P2 visitor lot or in garages P1 and P3. Parking is
free.</b>

The main lobby door is at “S1” shuttle pickup icon.

Enter the lobby and sign in at the front desk to pick up credentials.

Directions to the event room will be provided at that time

### Upcoming Training

TBD

### Past Meetings

**`January``   ``29th,``   ``2019`**` - Cambridge `[`Partnered``
 ``with``   ``Security``
 ``Innovation`](https://web.securityinnovation.com/owaspboston2019)

Location: [Quick Base office](https://goo.gl/maps/w11GUuJJAbo)

5PM- **Just bring your computer and evil inner-doer and you are ready to
roll\!**

Security Innovation is teaming up with OWASP Boston to offer attendees a
fun "find the vulnerabilities" game - CMD+CTRL Cyber Range - that shows
how hackers break into websites and teaches the importance of secure
coding habits.

The CMD+CTRL Cyber Range we will be using is called ShadowBank, a
banking website where players compete to find vulnerabilities, score
points, and move up the leaderboard. Leveraging cheat sheets, attack
tables, and expert led training sessions, platers take their shot at
stealing money, manipulating share prices, and conducting other
nefarious acts.

**`June``   ``14th,``
 ``2017`**` - Burlington `[`Meetup`](https://www.meetup.com/owaspboston/events/240033562/)

Location: [SalesForce (was Demandware) 5 Wall St., Burlington,
MA](https://maps.google.com/maps?f=q&hl=en&q=5+Wall+St.%2C+Burlington%2C+MA%2C+us)

Everyone should report to Akamai 90 Broadway in the lobby and indicate
about the Meetup. Someone form the staff will escort them to the 12th
floor.

5:30 - 6:15 - **Chat, Chew and Brew**

6:15 - 6:45 **News, Announcements**

Chapter and OWASP events and news, audience announcements, questions,
application security news(Google and Symantec certs, HTML5, Chrome
features, SDLC and Microservices, others?)

7:00 pm *' Is RASP Ready?*'

Runtime Application Self-Protection is overhyped, according to many
analysts and pundits. RASP promises applications that protect themselves
- which sounds impossible - how can an application possibly protect
itself? An agent that sits inside the app sounds like a deployment
nightmare at worst, and a drain on the app at best. What’s the reality?
Where are we now and what have we learned?

We’ve seen deployment successes and failures, and we will draw from
those specific experiences to describe: Where does RASP work?

  - What applications are well-suited for RASP?
  - What types (organizational structure, culture, or skillset) of
    organizations are well-suited for RASP?

What is the reality of RASP?

  - Is RASP a deployment model or a feature set?
  - How mature is RASP? Is it an over-hyped immature space,
    enterprise-ready, or somewhere in between?
  - Which RASP capabilities do organizations use? And how do they
    validate those capabilities in their own environments?
  - Can RASP replace the WAF?

We will conclude, not with a sales pitch, but some lessons learned on:
the three must have attributes for RASP, some suggestions on good
candidates for RASP – both types of teams and types of applications, and
finally - if, how, and when to get started.

*Speaker*: Michael Feiertag, CEO and Co-Founder, tCell Before
co-founding tCell at the end of 2014, Michael led a string of successful
products – most recently as head of products at Okta, and prior to that,
as technology director at Blue Coat. Prior to Blue Coat, Michael held
product management, engineering, and sales positions at several
start-ups. Michael holds a B.S. from The University of Chicago, and an
M.S. from the University of Maryland

**`May``   ``2,``
 ``2017`**` - Burlington `[`Meetup`](https://www.meetup.com/owaspboston/events/239130768/)

Location: [SalesForce (was Demandware) 5 Wall St., Burlington,
MA](https://maps.google.com/maps?f=q&hl=en&q=5+Wall+St.%2C+Burlington%2C+MA%2C+us)

Everyone should report to Akamai 90 Broadway in the lobby and indicate
about the Meetup. Someone form the staff will escort them to the 12th
floor.

5:30 - 6:15 - **Chat, Chew and Brew**

6:15 - 6:45 **News, Announcements**

Chapter and OWASP events and news, audience announcements, questions,
application security news(Google and Symantec certs, HTML5, Chrome
features, SDLC and Microservices, others?)

6:50 pm **Random Number Generation - Lava Lamps, Clouds, New Standards
and the IoT - Richard Moulds**

The SANS Institute recently listed "Weak random number generators" as
one of the 7 most dangerous security techniques to watch in 2017. But
how do you really know how good your random numbers are? Virtualization
and IoT make things worse and new standards are a wake-up call. Random
numbers are the basis of security for all cryptography, yet they are
often taken for granted. Without entropy, crypto is just math.  

Learn why random numbers are so hard to generate and validate, compare
different technologies in use today across virtualized environments, and
discuss operational steps to take the risk out of random numbers and
help secure cryptosystems even into the era of quantum computers.

*Speaker*: Richard Moulds, General Manager of Whitewood Security, has
spoken at RSA 2017 and at several OWASP chapter events in New York,
Chicago and Austin. Richard has over 20 years of experience in the area
of cryptography and encryption.

**`November``   ``2,``
 ``2016`**` - Cambridge `[`Meetup`](https://www.meetup.com/owaspboston/events/234648485/)

Location: [Akamai](http://www.akamai.com/html/about/locations.html) at
90 Broadway, Cambridge, MA 02142 (down the street from the usual
location)

Everyone should report to Akamai 90 Broadway in the lobby and indicate
about the Meetup. Someone form the staff will escort them to the 12th
floor.

6:30 **News, Announcements**

7:00 '*Advanced Persistent Legal Threats*' - **''**William Gamble, JD,
LLM, EMBA'''

Abstract: Good cyber security can protect IT infrastructure against many
attacks. Because of the difficulty in monetizing cyber thefts, the
direct loss of a breach can be limited. However, the legal costs, both
from government agencies and plaintiffs, can be far greater. The legal
landscape, both in the US and internationally is changing as fast if not
faster than the technology.

Bio: I am a lawyer and a member of the Florida Bar.I used to practice
tax, securities and banking law. I have written three books and spoken
around the world on the economic efficiency of legal and regulatory
infrastructures specifically in emerging markets like China. Over the
past two years, I have immersed myself in cyber security. I now hold the
CompTIA A+, Network+, and Security+. I will take the CASP next month.
Besides keeping up with the regulations, I am studying incident response
and auditing. I am also working toward my health care law certification.
My hero is Dr. Johannes Ullrich.

**`September``   ``28,``
 ``2016`**` - Burlington - `[`Meetup`](http://www.meetup.com/owaspboston/events/233921522/)

Location:
[Demandware](https://www.google.com/maps/place/5+Wall+St,+Burlington,+MA+01803/@42.4877956,-71.1904085,17z/data=!3m1!4b1!4m5!3m4!1s0x89e3758106c4cb55:0xc155e97a6d34883e!8m2!3d42.4877956!4d-71.1882198?hl=en)
at 5 Wall St., Burlington, MA

6:00 **News, Announcements**

6:15 **OWASP Top 10 \#1 - Injection Flaws**

Jim Weiler will discuss XML External Entity Injection flaws; how it
works, how to prevent, code examples.

6:45 '*From the Frontlines of RASP Adoption*' - **''**Goran Begic, VP of
Product, IMMUNIO'''

Runtime Application Self-Protection (RASP) is one of the newest
technologies coined by Gartner and it is in early stages of adoption in
the industry. It promises dynamic defense and automatic mitigation of
vulnerabilities in web applications.

This presentation is a summary of experiences from several dozens of
commercial evaluations and early adoptions in production that took place
this year and provides some examples of situations and challenges that
are not specific to any individual vendor. In this talk Goran will
provide an overview of buying criteria and evaluation requirements
across different industries and some typical pitfalls that can slow down
adoption.

After the introduction and a brief reminder on the technology Goran will
invite audience to participate in discussion about organizational
requirements for adoption and operationalization of RASP.

Questions for discussion:

My application is under attack.

  - What actions should I take?
  - Who owns the response?
  - Which attacks should I respond to and which ones can I ignore?
  - How to get started with mitigation provided by technology?
  - Does RASP fit with DevOps?
  - Does RASP help with remediation?

What this presentation is not: This is not a product pitch in any way.
Evaluation criteria, comparison of RASP with IAST and other security
technologies, personal experiences and examples discussed in this talk
are generally applicable to all RASP solutions.

Key takeaways:

At the end of the presentation you will:

  - get a better understanding of requirements for evaluation of RASP
    and its use cases,
  - if you can pull a successful evaluation alone, or if you will need
    participation of other groups / teams
  - learn about critical criteria for success of RASP in production
  - how this criteria different relative to appsec testing tools.

**`September``   ``7,``
 ``2016`**` - Cambridge - `[`Meetup`](http://www.meetup.com/owaspboston/events/229223967/)

Location: [Akamai](http://www.akamai.com/html/about/locations.html) at
150 Broadway, Cambridge, MA 02142 (aka 8 Cambridge Center)

6:30 **News, OWASP tools, documents review**

7:00 **Docker Containers and Application Security** - **Tsvi Korren**

Docker containers are transforming the way applications are developed
and deployed. Closely tied to DevOps and Continuous Delivery, containers
introduce both risks and opportunities to security management in Web
applications. This talk will introduce the basic concepts of containers,
how companies use them today and how to support this technology while
elevating the security posture of your application stacks.

Tsvi Korren, CISSP, has been an enterprise IT professional for 20 years
with background in business process consulting in large organizations.
Most recently at CA Technologies, he worked across verticals in
government, retail, financial institutions and healthcare to implement
compliance and security processes, from Identity and Access to Host and
Server Controls. Tsvi is currently the director of technical services at
Aqua, concentrating on building bridges between DevOps and Security.

**`June``   ``8,``
 ``2016`**` - Burlington - `[`Meetup`](http://www.meetup.com/owaspboston/events/230842887/)

Location:
[Demandware](https://www.google.com/maps/place/5+Wall+St,+Burlington,+MA+01803/@42.4877956,-71.1904085,17z/data=!3m1!4b1!4m5!3m4!1s0x89e3758106c4cb55:0xc155e97a6d34883e!8m2!3d42.4877956!4d-71.1882198?hl=en)
at 5 Wall St., Burlington, MA

6-6:30 '''News, announcements, job postings, etc. '''

6:30-7 **Introduction to SQL Injection - Jim Weiler**

7:00 **Computer Science Curricula’s Failure - What Should We Do Now?** -
**Ming Chow & Roy Wattanasin**

We are still facing the same security vulnerabilities from over a decade
ago. The problems are not going away anytime soon and a reason is
because Computer Science curricula are still churning out students who
are not even exposed to security. This talk will address the lack of
emphasis on information security in Computer Science curricula, how CS
curricula have an obligation, how to gradually fix the problem by
integrating security into many Computer Science undergraduate and
graduate classes, and success stories from students. This talk will also
discuss what Tufts and Brandeis are currently working on to further
address the security education problem by creating a joint cyber
security and policy program that spans multiple departments. Additional
points and feedback from the audience are encouraged to help with the
issue. All are encourage to attend to submit your feedback to help\!

Presenters:

Ming Chow - @0xmchow

Ming Chow is a Senior Lecturer at the Tufts University Department of
Computer Science. His areas of work are in web and mobile engineering
and web security. He was a web application developer for ten years at
Harvard University. Ming has spoken at numerous organizations and
conferences including the High Technology Crime Investigation
Association - New England Chapter (HTCIA-NE), the Massachusetts Office
of the Attorney General (AGO), John Hancock, OWASP, InfoSec World, DEF
CON, Intel, SOURCE Conference, and BSides Boston. He was a mentor for a
Proving Ground speaker at BSides Las Vegas in 2014 and 2015.

Roy Wattanasin - @wr0

Roy Wattanasin is an adjunct faculty at Brandeis University in both the
Health and Medical Informatics and Information Security graduate
programs. He spends most of his time leading, teaching and developing
information security programs, finding vulnerabilities, performing
incident response and working on many projects. Roy has spoken at many
conferences including RSA, ISSA International, Source Conference,
Braintank, Cyber Security World, OWASP and the Security BSides
conferences. He is also a healthcare information security professional.
He was a mentor for a Proving Ground speaker at BSides Las Vegas in
2015.

**`May``   ``4,``
 ``2016`**` - Cambridge - `[`Meetup`](http://www.meetup.com/owaspboston/events/229788205/)

Location: Slightly different
[Akamai](http://www.akamai.com/html/about/locations.html) location: 90
Broadway, Cambridge, MA 02142 between Meadhall and the Mariott

6:30 **News, OWASP tools, documents review**

7:00 **The ABCs of Source-Assisted Web Application Penetration Testing
With OWASP ZAP** - **Dan Cornell**

There are a number of reasons to use source code to assist in web
application penetration testing such as making better use of penetration
testers’ time, providing penetration testers with deeper insight into
system behavior, and highlighting specific sections of so development
teams can remediate vulnerabilities faster. Examples of these are
provided using the open source ThreadFix plugin for the OWASP ZAP proxy
and dynamic application security testing tool. These show opportunities
attendees have to enhance their own penetration tests given access to
source code.

This presentation covers the “ABCs” of source code assisted web
application penetration testing: covering issues of attack surface
enumeration, backdoor identification, and configuration issue discovery.
Having access to the source lets an attacker enumerate all of the URLs
and parameters an application exposes – essentially its attack surface.
Knowing these allows pen testers greater application coverage during
testing. In addition, access to source code can help to identify
potential backdoors that have been intentionally added to the system.
Comparing the results of blind spidering to a full attack surface model
can identify items of interest such as hidden admin consoles or secret
backdoor parameters. Finally, the presentation examines how access to
source code can help identify configuration settings that may have an
adverse impact on the security of the deployed application.

Dan Cornell is a globally recognized application security expert, Dan
Cornell holds over 15 years of experience architecting, developing and
securing web-based software systems. As the Chief Technology Officer and
a Principal at Denim Group, Ltd., he leads the technology team to help
Fortune 500 companies and government organizations integrate security
throughout the development process. He is also the original creator of
ThreadFix, Denim Group's industry leading application security program
management platform. Cornell was Principal Investigator as Denim Group
researched and developed the Hybrid Analysis Mapping (HAM) technology
that lies at the heart of ThreadFix, through a Small Business Innovation
Research (SBIR) contract with the Department of Homeland Security's
Science and Technology Directorate.

More information at: <http://www.denimgroup.com/about_team_dan.html>

**`April``   ``6,``
 ``2016`**` - Cambridge - `[`Meetup`](http://www.meetup.com/owaspboston/events/229223967/)

Location: [Akamai](http://www.akamai.com/html/about/locations.html) at
150 Broadway, Cambridge, MA 02142 (aka 8 Cambridge Center)

6:30 **News, OWASP tools, documents review**

7:00 **Runtime Application Self-Protection (RASP) Tools** - **Kunal
Anand**

This talk will highlight the latest in AppSec and dive into a different
kind of solution called Runtime Application Self-Protection (RASP).
We'll also explore a new methodology called language theoretic security
(LANGSEC) and explain how it can outperform existing approaches like
pattern matching, regular expressions, etc. This talk will lay the
foundation via informal and formal theory how lexers, tokenizers and
parsers work. We’ll move onto constructing an open source toolchain to
analyzing data and exploring interactive data visualizations. Along the
way, we’ll cover performance tradeoffs and discuss the challenges of
modern application security.

Kunal Anand is the co-founder and CTO of Prevoty, a runtime application
security platform. Prior to that, he was the Director of Technology at
the BBC Worldwide, overseeing engineering and operations across the
company’s global Digital Entertainment and Gaming initiatives. Kunal
also has several years of experience leading security, data and
engineering at Gravity, MySpace and NASA’s JetPropulsion Laboratory. His
work has been featured in Wired Magazine and Fast Company. Kunal
received a B.S. from Babson College.

### Past Training

**`March``   ``16,``
 ``2016`**` - Burlington - `[`Meetup`](http://www.meetup.com/owaspboston/events/229156529/)

Location: Demandware, Burlington.

6:00 **News, OWASP tools, documents review**

6:30 **Software Security by the Numbers** - **Chris Eng**

Deep dive into data we’ve collected about the state of software security
in 2016

  - Based on scans of 200,000+ applications over an 18-month period
  - How different industries and programming languages compare to one
    another
  - Vulnerability remediation habits and patterns
  - Three characteristics of a successful AppSec program

Chris Eng is vice president of research at Veracode. In this role, he
leads the team responsible for integrating security expertise into all
aspects of Veracode’s technology. Throughout his career, he has led
projects breaking, building, and defending web applications and
commercial software for some of the world’s largest companies. Chris is
a frequent speaker at premier industry conferences, where he has
presented on a diverse range of topics, including cryptographic attacks,
agile security, mobile application security, and security metrics. He
has been interviewed by Bloomberg, Fox Business, CBS, and other media
outlets worldwide.

**`January``   ``26,``
 ``2016`**` - Waltham - `[`Meetup`](http://www.meetup.com/owaspboston/events/228202040/)

Location: Constant Contact, Waltham. Trapelo Rd. exit from Rt. 128,
toward Lincoln. The parking lot entrance is on the right, at the first
traffic light. Drive around to the front of the office complex, facing
the highway. Enter under the clock tower. Park in the front of the
building and enter in the main building lobby, continue down the hallway
and you will see the innovation center, enter in the large glass doors.

7:00 **News, OWASP tools, documents review**

7:20 **What Security Testing Tools Miss**

Black Duck Software presents - Static analysis, dynamic analysis, and
other testing tools are all essential weapons against adversaries. But
for the 80%+ of companies worldwide that use open source software in
their application development these tools are ineffective in identifying
and mitigating open source security risks . This presentation will
cover:

The value of static and dynamic tools, and where they best fit in the
Secure Development Lifecycle

Why these tools are not useful in identifying known vulnerabilities in
open source components

Controls development and security professionals can deploy to select,
detect, manage and monitor open source for existing and newly disclosed
vulnerabilities

Food will be provided by Constant Contact.

**`November``
 ``2015`**` - Cambridge - `[`Meetup`](http://www.meetup.com/owaspboston/events/226394218/)

When: Wednesday, November 4, 6:30 pm

Location: [Akamai](http://www.akamai.com/html/about/locations.html) at
150 Broadway Cambridge, MA 02142 (aka 8 Cambridge Center)

6:30 **News, views, announcements, conversation**

7:00 **Interactive Discussions (Come and ask your questions\!)**

Attendee interaction is always mentioned as a high value at meetings and
was great at the MetroWest meetings, so we're doing that at Akamai this
month. Some discussion starters so far: SSL certificate impacts from
CA/Browser alliance decisions and SHA1 weakness; mutual (client) SSL,
javascript client and server side; what the heck is threat intelligence,
dev ops and faster secure SDLC.

**`July``   ``2015`**` - Metrowest`

When: Wednesday, July 20, 7:00 pm

Location: Constant Contact, Innovation Center, Reservoir Place, 1601
Trapelo Road, Waltham, MA 02451

7:00 **News, views, announcements, conversation**

7:30 **Access in Maliceland - Risk Based Access Control** - **Gunnar
Peterson**

John Lambert observed attackers win because while defenders think in
lists, attackers think in graphs. Access control systems divide the
system a priori into secure and insecure states. But that’s only worth
the paper its printed on. A Attackers see the system as it is, for
attackers, the access control scheme is the beginning of the game not
the end. Determined attackers seek out access control models and then
find holes that they can leverage. Access control systems that purport
to protect the system are built on assumptions from which reality
diverges. Application security needs a new approach to access control-
adding feedback loops for risk based decisions, fine-grained, dynamic
access control.

Security is a business with a very long list of issues and requirements.
The spreadsheets are miles long. This makes it essential to find
reusable solution patterns that can address multiple problems.This
presentation looks at both medium term improvements and code examples to
improve access control decisions and overall security today

Gunnar Peterson ([@oneraindrop](https://twitter.com/oneraindrop))
focuses on security architecture consulting and training. Experience
includes Associate Editor for IEEE Security & Privacy Journal, a
Microsoft MVP for App security, an IANS Research Faculty member, a
Securosis Contributing Analyst, and a Visiting Scientist at Carnegie
Mellon Software Engineering Institute. He maintains a popular
information security blog at <http://1raindrop.typepad.com>.

**`July``   ``2015`**` - Cambridge`

When: Wednesday, July 8, 6:30 pm *NOTE: It's the second Wednesday this
month.*

Location: [Akamai](http://www.akamai.com/html/about/locations.html) at 8
Cambridge Center in Cambridge, MA

6:30 **News, views, announcements, conversation**

7:00 **Interactive Discussions (Come and ask your questions\!)**

**`June``   ``2015`**

When: Wednesday, June 3, 6:30 pm

Location: [Akamai](http://www.akamai.com/html/about/locations.html) at 8
Cambridge Center in Cambridge, MA

6:30 **News, views, announcements, conversation**

7:00 **Put Down the Megaphone: Effective Security Advocacy Without the
Shouting** - **Darren Meyer**

10 years’ experience in the InfoSec community--including work with
organizations in many verticals, in sizes ranging from startups to
Fortune 50 enterprises, leading Application Security teams, building and
delivering security instruction to developers, managers, and InfoSec
professionals—has taught me the importance of crafting advocacy for
different audiences. In this talk, I share my experiences in learning to
be an effective advocate with three key audiences: developers,
management, and non-technical staff.

Darren is an Application Security advocate and researcher, technology
hobbyist, and maker. He loves to learn, teach, nerd out, and inflict
terrible puns on people. His background includes logistics, software
development, and an assortment of information security roles including
leading AppSec programs and professional security instruction targeting
developers, managers, and InfoSec professionals.

**`May``   ``2015`**

When: Wednesday, May 6, 6:30 pm

Location: [Akamai](http://www.akamai.com/html/about/locations.html) at 8
Cambridge Center in Cambridge, MA

6:30 **News, views, announcements, conversation**

7:00 **How the crowd is discovering critical vulns missed by traditional
methods** - **Leif Dreizler**

State of the art security programs are turning to bug bounties to
leverage a vast array of skill-sets and knowledge. Learn why these
programs work, when to deploy them, and how you can bring these new
application security testing capabilities into your own organization.
The speaker will discuss real world examples from bug bounties and focus
on cases where business logic flaws and high priority vulnerabilities
were found ... even with existing security testing processes in place.

Attendees will learn:

Testing methods deployed by our crowd that help them find bugs the
scanners miss

Examples of the high quality of bugs our crowd is finding, including
P1'sTrends which vulnerability types are found most often and whyWhat is
the ROI on the pay for performance modelWhere does the SDLC merge into
crowdsourced testing

Leif Dreizler is a Senior Security Engineer at Bugcrowd, the innovator
in crowdsourced security testing for the enterprise. Prior to joining
Bugcrowd, Leif was a Senior Application Security Engineer at Redspin,
performing application security assessments. During his time at Redspin
he also served as the Application Team Lead, liaising with clients at
the engineering and sales level. He has also made minor contributions to
the Firebug project. Leif attended the University of California, Santa
Barbara where he studied Computer Science. Leif recently spoke to the
NYC Security Meet-up group.

**`April``   ``2015`**

When: Wednesday, April 1, 6:30 pm

Location: [Akamai](http://www.akamai.com/html/about/locations.html) at 8
Cambridge Center in Cambridge, MA

6:30 **News, views, announcements, conversation**

Jim Weiler Will show some actual examples and patterns of SQL Injection
attempts

7:00 **Are You An Imposter? Me too\!** - **Patrick Laverty**

Many people in the information security field feel like a fraud, or an
imposter. In reality, we often know far more, and are capable of far
more than we believe we do. There is so much to know and we constantly
hear about the latest groundbreaking research done by others, which
makes us feel less important or worthy. Let’s talk about what Imposter
Syndrome is, its prevalence, and then we can start to realize just how
capable we are and go forward with the confidence in the field.

**`March``   ``2015`**

When: Wednesday, March 4, 6:30 pm

Location: [Akamai](http://www.akamai.com/html/about/locations.html) at 8
Cambridge Center in Cambridge, MA

6:30 **News, views, announcements, conversation**

7:00 **Prioritizing Web Application Vulnerabilities – A Hacker’s
Perspective** - **Nick Silver**

The best application risk models capture not only the technical risk
factors, but also the business context in which an asset lives.
Traditionally, this is done by auditing application owners on an array
of questions in order to properly classify the asset and its data – but
that takes time which could be better spent elsewhere. We interviewed
dozens of hackers and asked them which vulnerabilities they would look
for first depending on the type of attack they wanted to carry out.
We’ll walk through several examples of how to use this data as a
shortcut means for prioritizing risk without the need for any pesky
audit questionnaires.

Nick Silver is a Senior Solutions Architect with WhiteHat Security. He
is responsible for translating business requirements into technical ones
and assisting businesses in implementing web security programs.
Previously, Nick led a team in WhiteHat’s Threat Research Center where
they were responsible for testing more than 2,000 of their customers’
websites for vulnerabilities.

**`February``   ``2015`**

When: Wednesday, February 4, 6:30 pm

Location: [Akamai](http://www.akamai.com/html/about/locations.html) at 8
Cambridge Center in Cambridge, MA

6:30 **News review, announcements** - **Jim Weiler**

7:00 **Incident Response and Web Application Security - Stories from the
Trenches** - **Fred House and Joe Ceirante**

Mandiant has conducted numerous incident response engagements throughout
its history, including a record number of 200 incidents in 2014.
Mandiant consultants Fred House and Joe Ceirante will discuss case
studies and trends Mandiant has observed in relation to web application
security.

Topics will include the types of threat actors that target web
applications, the techniques they use to compromise web applications,
and the activities they perform once inside the network. Techniques for
detecting and mitigating web compromises will also be reviewed. All
content will be derived from the real-world compromises that Mandiant
has investigated.

**`January``   ``2015`**

When: Wednesday, January 7, 6:30 pm

Location: [Akamai](http://www.akamai.com/html/about/locations.html) at 8
Cambridge Center in Cambridge, MA

6:30 **News review, risk analysis of Poodle** - **Jim Weiler**

7:00 **How a Hacker Views Your Web Site** - **Patrick Laverty**

*The most popular presentation of BASC 2014*

As defenders, we have to be right 100% of the time where an attacker
only needs to be right once. The attack surface of a modern web site is
incredibly large and we need to be aware of all of it. Additionally,
individual attacks may not always be effective but sometimes using them
together can gain the desired effect. In this talk, we’ll take a look at
the whole attack surface for a typical web site and the various ways
that an attacker will use to compromise a site.

**`December``   ``2014`**

When: Wednesday, December 3, 6:30 pm

Location: [Akamai](http://www.akamai.com/html/about/locations.html) at 8
Cambridge Center in Cambridge, MA

6:30 **News and Views You Can Use and Abuse** - **Jim Weiler**

  - Some thoughts and analysis on some current app security news and
    other stuff
  - Adobe password breach
  - Reducing Web Application Firewall SQL injection false positives

7:15 **Swift and Security** - **Ming Chow**

Apple is pushing its new programming language Swift for iOS development
and for many good reasons. This talk will discuss what the language has
right in terms of security, the old and new security pitfalls, and what
developers need to be aware of moving forward with using the new
language. The fact to the matter is, iOS isn't going away, iOS
developers will need to learn and use Swift, and there will be a big
rush of Swift-based apps: we might as well learn how to do it right the
first time around.

Ming Chow is an Instructor at the Department of Computer Science, Tufts
University. Ten years of web development experience. Specialties: Web
and Mobile Development, Web and Mobile Security

**`July``   ``2014`**

Topics: **Grails Security** and **Validating Cross-Site Scripting Vulns
with xssValidator**

Presenters: **Cyrus Malekpour** and **John Poulin**

When: Tuesday, July 8, 6:30 pm

Location: [Akamai](http://www.akamai.com/html/about/locations.html) at 8
Cambridge Center in Cambridge, MA

Topic 1: *Grails Security*

Grails is a framework developed for Groovy in the vein of Rails for
Ruby. It provides a lot of features for web app security, but does it do
enough? What might you need to implement yourself, and what might be
provided? This presentation will discuss tips on securing Grails
applications, including tools that the framework provides by default for
security. It'll also discuss several shortcomings in the current
toolset, and how you can avoid them.

Cyrus Malekpour (@cmalekpour) is currently interning at nVisium, working
on web app development and security. He's currently an undergraduate
student at the University of Virginia, where he's studying computer
science with an emphasis on security and backend development.

Topic 2: *Validating Cross-Site Scripting Vulns with xssValidator*

xssValidator is a tool developed to automate the testing and validation
of Cross-Site Scripting (xss) vulnerabilities within web applications.
Automated scanners tend to report large amounts of false-positives, and
as consultants we're forced spending our time trying to verify these
findings. xssValidator leverages scriptable web-browsers such as
PhantomJS and Slimer.js to automatically validate these findings.

John Poulin is an application security consultant for nVisium who
specializes in web application security. He worked previously as a web
developer and software engineer that focused on building multi-tier web
applications. When he's not hacking on web apps, John spends his time
building tools to help him hack on web apps\! You can find him on
twitter: @forced_request and on myspace: REDACTED.

**`June``   ``2014`**

Topic: **Training: SQL Injection and the OWASP Zed Attack Proxy (ZAP)**

Presenters: **Rob Cheyne and Jim Weiler**

When: Wednesday, June 4, 6:30 pm

Location: [Akamai](http://www.akamai.com/html/about/locations.html) at 8
Cambridge Center in Cambridge, MA

6:30 - general networking, news discussion, announcements.

7:00 - main presentations

The June 4th meeting will be the second in our series of 2014 training
meetings. Rob Cheyne will continue explaining and exploring SQL
Injection by conducting an actual injection attack.

This will be a demo-based discussion to get into the mindset of an
attacker, and show how an attacker goes after a site. Demo will include:

  - BurpProxy demo
  - Common authentication flaws
  - SQL Injection Demo that shows the process and how it builds to a
    full compromise

**Rob Cheyne** is currently CEO of Big Brain Security. In addition to
security consulting for Fortune 500 customers, he was the author of LC4,
a version of the award-winning L0phtCrack password auditing tool, and he
also worked on the code scanning technology that was eventually spun off
as Veracode. Rob was at @stake from the very first customer all the way
through to the $50M acquisition by Symantec.

**Jim Weiler** will introduce the OWASP Zed Attack Proxy (ZAP). This is
a very powerful free OWASP intercepting proxy that lets you see,
analyze, change, replay etc. every browser request and response, analyze
your session, scan and attack web sites, save the results and run
reports. We can't cover all the functionality but we'll show some
practical tips and techniques.

Pizza, salad and soda courtesy of Akamai

**`March``   ``2014`**

Topic: **Training: SQL Injection, WebGoat, Cross Site Request Forgery**
Presenter: **Benjamin Lerner** When: Wednesday, March 5, 6:30 pm

Location: [Akamai](http://www.akamai.com/html/about/locations.html) at 8
Cambridge Center in Cambridge, MA

There will be three training sessions:

One will be on SQL Injection - intro, detection, prevention, scanning
and false positives. This is the most serious web application
vulnerability.

The second will be on OWASP WebGoat. WebGoat is a deliberately insecure
web application maintained by OWASP designed to teach web application
security lessons. You can install and practice with WebGoat in either
J2EE or in ASP.NET. In each lesson, users must demonstrate their
understanding of a security issue by exploiting a real vulnerability in
the WebGoat applications. There are hints and 39 different lesson plans
on various vulnerabilities and technologies. We won't cover all of them
of course\!

The third will be on Cross Site Request Forgery - not a hack really,
it's just the way the web works. But it causes apps to do legitimate
things that you didn't ask them to do.

Pizza and drinks provided by Akamai.

**`January``   ``2014`**

When: Wednesday, January 8, 6:30 pm

Location: [Akamai](http://www.akamai.com/html/about/locations.html) at 8
Cambridge Center in Cambridge, MA

Topic: **JavaScript Verification: From Browsers to Pages**

Modern web browsers implement a "private browsing" mode that is intended
to leave behind no traces of a user's browsing activity on their
computer. This feature is in direct tension with support for
\*extensions\*, which let users add third-party functionality into their
browser. I will discuss the scope of this problem, present our approach
to verifying extensions' compliance with private browsing mode, and
sketch our findings on several real, third-party extensions. I will then
briefly describe the toolkit underlying our approach, and end with a
sketch of a newer project, adapting this approach to the very
different-seeming problem of statically catching errors when using the
jQuery library.

Presenter: **Benjamin Lerner**

Benjamin Lerner has just completed a post-doctoral research position in
the PLT group at Brown University, and is now a lecturer at Northeastern
University. His research examines the challenges of analyzing
client-side web programming, from the behavior of web pages down through
the semantics of the browser. He received a PhD in Computer Science from
the University of Washington in 2011, building a platform to analyze
conflicts between browser extensions, and a B.S. in Computer Science and
Mathematics from Yale University.

**`November``   ``2013`**

When: Wednesday, November 6, 6:30 pm

Location: [Akamai](http://www.akamai.com/html/about/locations.html) at 8
Cambridge Center in Cambridge, MA

Topic: **Attacking iOS Applications**

Slides: [On slideshare](http://www.slideshare.net/kfosaaen/i-os-gcandpb)

This presentation will cover the basics of attacking iOS applications
(and their back ends) using a web proxy to intercept, modify, and repeat
HTTP/HTTPS requests. (The proxy used during research was Burp; however,
any HTTP intercepting proxy such as OWASP ZAP could be used) From
setting up the proxy to pulling data from the backend systems, this talk
will be a great primer for anyone interested in testing iOS applications
at the HTTP protocol level. There will be a short (2 minute) primer on
setting up the intercepting proxy, followed by three practical examples
showing how to intercept data headed to the phone, how to modify data
heading to the application server, and how to pull extra data from
application servers to further an attack. All of these examples will
focus on native iOS apps (Game Center and Passbook) and/or functionality
(Passbook Passes).

Presenter: **Karl Fosaaen**

Karl is a senior security consultant at NetSPI. This role has allowed
Karl to work in a variety of industries, including financial services,
health care, and hardware manufacturing. Karl specializes in network and
web application penetration testing. In his spare time, Karl helps out
as an OPER at THOTCON and a swag goon at DEF CON.

**`October``   ``2013`**

When: Wednesday, October 2, 6:30 pm

Location: [Akamai](http://www.akamai.com/html/about/locations.html) at 8
Cambridge Center in Cambridge, MA

Topic: **Abusing NoSQL Databases**

The days of selecting from a few SQL database options for an application
are over. There is now a plethora of NoSQL database options to choose
from: some are better than others for certain jobs. There are good
reasons why developers are choosing them over traditional SQL databases
including performance, scalabiltiy, and ease-of-use. Unfortunately like
for many hot techologies, security is largely an afterthought in NoSQL
databases. This short but concise presentation will illustrate how poor
the quality of security in many NoSQL database systems is. This
presentation will not be confined to one particular NoSQL database
system. Two sets of security issues will be discussed: those that affect
all NoSQL database systems such as defaults, authentication, encryption;
and those that affect specific NoSQL database systems such as MongoDB
and CouchDB. The ideas that we now have a complicated heterogeneous
problem and that defense-in-depth is even more necessary will be
stressed. There is a common misconception that SQL injection attacks are
eliminated by using a NoSQL database system. While specifically SQL
injection is largely eliminated, injection attack vectors have increased
thanks to JavaScript and the flexibility of NoSQL databases. This
presentation will present and demo new classes of injection attacks.
Attendees should be familiar with JavaScript and JSON.

Presenter: **Ming Chow**

Ming Chow (@tufts_cs_mchow) is a Lecturer at the Tufts University
Department of Computer Science. His areas of work are in web and mobile
engineering and web security. He teaches courses largely in the
undergraduate curriculum including the second course in the major
sequence, Web Programming, Music Apps on the iPad, and Introduction to
Computer Security. He was also a web application developer for ten years
at Harvard University. Ming has spoken at numerous organizations and
conferences including the High Technology Crime Investigation
Association - New England Chapter (HTCIA-NE), the Massachusetts Office
of the Attorney General (AGO), John Hancock, OWASP, InfoSec World (2011
and 2012), DEF CON 19 (2011), the Design Automation Conference (2011),
Intel, and the SOURCE Conference (Boston 2013). Ming's projects in
information security include building numerous CTF challenges, Internet
investigations, HTML5 and JavaScript security, and Android forensics.

**`September``   ``2013``   ``-``   ``Joint``   ``Meeting``   ``with``
 `[`Boston``   ``Cloud``
 ``Services`](http://www.meetup.com/Boston-cloud-services/)**` `

When: Tuesday, September 10, 6 pm

Location: Microsoft NERD Center *(not our usual location)*

**Note: This is a joint meeting. Please register at [the Boston Cloud
Services meetup page](http://www.meetup.com/Boston-cloud-services/) if
you plan to attend.**

There will be two presentations at this meeting:

Topic: **People Centric Security (PCS)**

Presenter: **Nick Stamos**

People Centric Security (PCS) is a new security model, presented as part
of Gartner's Maverick Research 2 year ago. PCS is well suited for Cloud
Business/Consumer services such as Dropbox, Google Drive, SkyDrive, etc.
PCS enables users to have what they desire, and provides enterprises
what they require for data governance and compliance. Nick Stamos
co-founded his fourth company, nCrypted Cloud in July of 2012. His past
startups include Verdasys, Phase Forward (IPO FY2004, $685M Oracle
Acquisition 2010), and Amulet. He studied at Tufts University where he
received a BSEE and MSEE.

Topic: **SSL Certs**

Presenter: **Jim Weiler**

Practical experiences with issuing and risk assessing SSL certs for
enterprise applications on a cloud provider: who creates the CSR, how do
you protect the private key on the cloud server, certs on cloud provider
managed load balancers vrs 3rd party managed app servers, roles and
responsibilities of cloud IT, 3rd party developer IT, enterprise IT and
service providers. Jim Weiler is Application Security Architect at
Starwoods Hotels and the Chapter Leader of OWASP Boston.

**`July``   ``2013``   ``-``   ``Doubleheader!`**

Location: [Akamai](http://www.akamai.com/html/about/locations.html) at 8
Cambridge Center in Cambridge, MA

When: Wednesday, July 10, 6:30 pm

Topic: **RailsGoat**

Presented by: **Ken Johnson**

Abstract: While working to secure rails applications in a truly Agile
development environment, it became clear that the Rails and Ruby
ecosystem needed attention from the security community in the form of
free and open training, and the events that have transpired within the
last few months have only reinforced that belief.
[RailsGoat](http://railsgoat.cktricky.com/) is an attempt to bring
attention to both the problems that most frequently occur in Rails as
well as the solutions for remediation. To accomplish this, we've built a
vulnerable Rails application that aligns with the OWASP Top 10 and can
be used as a training tool for Rails-based development shops.

Topic: **PhoneGap on Android**

Presented by: **Jack Mannino**

Abstract: PhoneGap is a widely used framework that allows developers to
rapidly build cross-platform mobile applications using HTML5,
JavaScript, and CSS. Using PhoneGap plugins, developers can call native
platform APIs from browser-like applications using JavaScript. This
approach introduces vulnerabilities that are not typically as prevalent
within native Android applications, warranting a fresh look at the way
we view mobile applications. In this presentation, we will take a deep
look at the Android implementation of the framework and we will examine
the overall attack surface for applications. Real-world examples of
vulnerable applications will be demonstrated as well in order to provide
context, entertainment, and enjoyment.

About the Speakers:

Ken Johnson is the former Manager of LivingSocial.com's application
security team where he built their security program before leaving for
his true home as the CTO of nVisium Security, a VA-based application
security company. Ken is the primary developer of the Web Exploitation
Framework and contributes to other open source application security
projects as often as time permits. He has spoken at AppSec DC 2010 and
2012, OWASP NoVA and Phoenix chapters, Northern Virginia Hackers
Association (NoVAH) and is a contributor to the Attack Research team.

Jack Mannino is the CEO of nVisium Security, a VA-based application
security company. At nVisium, he helps to ensure that large
corporations, government agencies, and software startups have the tools
they need to build and maintain successful security initiatives. He is
an active Android security researcher/tinkerer, and has a keen interest
in identifying security issues and trends on a large scale. Jack is a
leader and founder of the OWASP Mobile Security Project. He is the lead
developer for the OWASP GoatDroid project, and is the chairman of the
OWASP Northern Virginia chapter.

**`June``   ``2013`**

Topic: **We see the future…and it isn’t pretty**

Presented by: **Andrea Mulligan, Sr. Director at Veracode**

Location: [Akamai](http://www.akamai.com/html/about/locations.html) at 8
Cambridge Center in Cambridge, MA

When: Wednesday, June 5, 6:30 pm

In this session Andrea presents research findings from the State of
Software Security Report, which offers a before the breach look at
security by examining the flaws commonly found in applications of all
kinds. She will also examine what the research findings mean for
security, predict how these flaws could cause history to repeat itself,
and discuss how security pros can help change the future.

**`May``   ``2013`**

Topic: **Systems Thinking + Web Security**

Presented by: **Akamai**

Location: [Akamai](http://www.akamai.com/html/about/locations.html) at 8
Cambridge Center in Cambridge, MA

When: Wednesday, May 1, 6:30 pm

Akamai will present on ‘Systems Thinking + Web Security’. There will
also be an audience review exercise facilitated by the Akamai
presenters. This is a great chance to hear some interesting perspectives
on web security from Akamai, who handles about one third of all internet
traffic.

**`April``   ``2013`**

Topic: **Go Fast. Be Secure: Effectively Govern the Use of Open Source
Components Throughout the SDLC**

Presented by: **Sonotype**

Location: [Akamai](http://www.akamai.com/html/about/locations.html) at 8
Cambridge Center in Cambridge, MA

When: Wednesday, April 3, 6:30 pm

  - Open Source Software (OSS) Component supply chain complexities and
    realities. Open source is constantly changing and knowing the
    version in your software, as well as the current version history of
    the component (how do you show an auditor you are using a current
    version) is important.
  - Open Source Consumption Patterns from the Central Repository. Which
    versions are the most popular can tell you which versions are the
    most stable, useful, secure etc.
  - OWASP Top 10 (A9) - Using Components with Known Vulnerabilities. To
    decide on the risk of OSS components with vulnerabilities, you need
    to know the vulnerabilities, their severity and which components
    they occur in as well as where in the code dependency tree they are.
  - OSS Security, Quality and License policies must be woven into the
    development process. Knowing the number and type of open source
    licenses in your software can be important to the legal standing of
    your code and if it conflicts with any corporate standards. The
    licensing is also important in order to know the restrictions on
    changing the software.
  - OSS Component Policy Examples
  - Example Application Compositions Reports
  - Example Use cases IDE, CI, repository, production applications
  - Discussion

About Sonatype:

Sonatype operates the Central Repository, the industry's primary source
for open-source components, housing more than 400,000 components and
serving more than five billion requests per year from more than 60,000
organizations. The company has been a pioneer in component-based
software development since its founding by Jason van Zyl, the creator of
the Apache Maven build management system and the Central Repository.

**`March``   ``2013`**

Topic: **What is BSIMM?**

Speaker: **Nabil Hannan**

Location: [Akamai](http://www.akamai.com/html/about/locations.html) at 8
Cambridge Center in Cambridge, MA

Nabil is Director of Vulnerability Assessments and Managing Consultant
at Cigital.

The purpose of the BSIMM is to quantify the activities carried out by
real software security initiatives. BSIMM is a study of the secure
development practices of over 50 organizations, analyzed along the
dimensions that were found in the data, not along preconceived ideas of
what secure development should be.

BSIMM describes the work of 974 software security group members working
with a satellite of 2039 people to secure the software developed by
218,286 developers.

The BSIMM describes 111 activities that any organization can put into
practice. The activities are described in twelve practices grouped into
four domains. Associated with each activity is an objective.

**`February``   ``2013`**

Topic: **BroBot**

Speaker: **Eric Kobrin, Akamai**

When: Wednesday, February 6, 6:30 pm

Location: [Akamai](http://www.akamai.com/html/about/locations.html) at 8
Cambridge Center in Cambridge, MA

Eric Kobrin is a Senior Security Architect in the Infosec organization
of Akamai Technologies, the global leader in Cloud-based application
acceleration and content delivery. Eric has been involved in Software
Architecture for over 15 years, having worked at such companies and IBM,
Velocitude and eDiets.com. He has a passion for programming languages,
security, and software performance and has worked in all layers of the
software stack from hypervisors to complex servers and web applications.
Eric's works have been published, presented at international conferences
and patented.

His presentation will provide an analysis of the BroBot DDOS attacks,
including discussion of:

  - Vulnerable system discovery
  - Zombie compromise
  - Control structure
  - Attack traffic
  - Mitigation steps

**`January``   ``2013`**

Topic: **Third-Party Application Analysis: Best Practices and Lessons
Learned**

Speaker: **Chad Holmes, Veracode**

Location: [Akamai](http://www.akamai.com/html/about/locations.html) at 8
Cambridge Center in Cambridge, MA

Chad Holmes will present details of the work Veracode has been doing
with their 3rd Party program, discuss the technical and business
challenges that have arisen during that time and lead a discussion on
what team members can do to help drive adoption of security best
practices across their vendor community.

The flow of the presentation is designed to drive discussion within an
audience – both from a technical and business perspective with some
anecdotal stories. Chad wants this to be an interactive discussion so
he’ll have questions and you should bring yours I’ve already sent him
some. The order of the presentation is:

· Adoption rates of externally developed software

· The risk within those apps

· Some deeper stats on what “3rd party” really means (total
outsourcing/total COTS produced/open source/imported libraries/etc)

· Some raw data about our experiences (to show this is based on a large
sample size rather than “Look how awesome Veracode is\!”)

· Challenges that will be faced (business, intellectual property,
policy, analysis capabilities, etc)

· Best Practices for high rates of adoption

· Lessons Learned and Recommendations

Chad Holmes has over 10 years of software development and application
security experience. During his time at Veracode, Chad has lead the
redesign and execution of the third-party analysis process to allow for
a more streamlined approach while still addressing common ISV
intellectual property concerns. In addition to his third-party analysis
responsibilities, Chad's previous work as a Security Program Manager has
lead to the successful roll out and improvement of multiple corporate
application security groups.

**`June``   ``2012`**

Location - Microsoft Waltham (201 Jones Rd., Sixth Floor Waltham, MA)

Speaker **Will Vandevanter - Rapid 7**

**Fingerprinting web applications of all kinds**

This turbo talk will introduce a new Metasploit module that fingerprints
"known" web applications, attempts the default credentials for the
application, and runs an associated exploit or authenticated access
module if applicable. Some example fingerprints in the database target
common enterprise web applications including Microsoft products (Outlook
Web Access, Sharepoint), printers (Xerox Document Centre), security
cameras, routers, and others.

Will Vandevanter is a senior penetration tester and researcher at
Rapid7. His focus interests include web application security and secure
code. He has previously spoken at Defcon, SOURCE, BSides LV, and other
conferences.

**`May``   ``31``   ``2012`**

Location - Jobspring, Boston. 545 Boylston st.

Speaker - **Glenn Gramling, Vice President, Cenzic**

“Cloudy with a Chance of Hack”

Cloud computing is a cost effective and efficient way for enterprises to
automate their processes. However organizations need to be aware of the
pitfalls of the many cloud solutions out there - one of the main being
security. Most cloud applications were built for ease of use and without
security necessarily in mind. Companies need to be asking their solution
providers about the security measures used in developing the application
and get an independent verification to make sure there are no gaping
holes. With over 75% of attacks occurring through the Web, any attack
through these applications can lead to leakage of confidential
information and embarrassment. In this session, we'll give attendees
tips and tricks to prepare them for the potential of "stormy weather."

Glenn Gramling is responsible for global sales and business development
for Cenzic’s application security.

**`April``   ``11,``   ``2012`**

Location - Microsoft Waltham (201 Jones Rd., Sixth Floor Waltham, MA)

Speaker - **David Eoff, Senior Product Marketing Manager, HP Enterprise
Security**

David is a Senior Product Marketing Manager, within the Enterprise
Security Products division of HP focused on Fortify application
security. His 18+ years of background in software and hardware
enterprise marketing provides a solid foundation for his marketing of
the HP security solutions.

Prior to joining Fortify in 2009 and being acquired by HP, David ran
Firewall and IPS marketing for the Security division of Nokia
Corporation. In addition, he has held multiple positions in product
marketing, product management, channel marketing and sales while working
for Oracle, EMC, Legato, BMC Software and several start-ups.

Topic - **Gray, the New Black: Gray-Box Vulnerability Testing**

Over the years, two key techniques have emerged as the most effective
for finding security vulnerabilities in software: Dynamic Application
Security Testing (DAST) and Static Application Security Testing (SAST).
While DAST and SAST each possess unique strengths, the “Holy Grail” of
security testing is thought to be “hybrid” – a technique that combines
and correlates the results from both testing methods, maximizing the
advantages of each. Until recently, however, a critical element has been
missing from first generation hybrid solutions: information about the
inner workings and behavior of applications undergoing DAST and SAST
analysis.

This presentation will introduce you to the next generation of hybrid
security analysis – what it is, how it works, and the benefits it
offers. It will also address (and dispel) the claims against hybrid, and
leave you with a clear understanding of how the new generation of hybrid
will enable organizations to resolve their most critical software
security issues faster and more cost-effectively than any other
available analysis technology.

**`March``   ``8,``   ``2012,``   ``with``   ``the``   ``Boston``
 ``Security``   ``Meetup``   ``group`**

Location - [JobSpring, Boylston
St.](http://maps.google.com/maps?q=Jobspring+Partners,+Boylston+Street,+Boston,+MA&hl=en&sll=42.362243,-71.081628&sspn=0.019549,0.037594&oq=jobspring&t=v&hq=Jobspring+Partners,&hnear=Boylston+St,+Boston,+Massachusetts&z=17)

Topic - **Corporate Espionage for Dummies: The Hidden Threat of Embedded
Web Servers**

Speaker - VP for Security Research at ZScaler, along with other speakers
at the security meetup.

Today, everything from kitchen appliances to television sets come with
an IP address. Network connectivity for various hardware devices opens
up exciting opportunities. Forgot to lower the thermostat before leaving
the house? Simply access it online. Need to record a show? Start the DVR
with a mobile app. While embedded web servers are now as common as
digital displays in hardware devices, sadly, security is not. What if
that same convenience exposed photocopied documents online or allowed
outsiders to record your telephone conversations? A frightening thought
indeed.

Software vendors have been forced to climb the security learning curve.
As independent researchers uncovered embarrassing vulnerabilities,
vendors had little choice but to plug the holes and revamp development
lifecycles to bake security into products. Vendors of embedded web
servers have faced minimal scrutiny and as such are at least a decade
behind when it comes to security practices. Today, network connected
devices are regularly deployed with virtually no security whatsoever.

The risk of insecure embedded web servers has been amplified by insecure
networking practices. Every home and small business now runs a wireless
network, but it was likely set up by someone with virtually no
networking expertise. As such, many devices designed only for LAN access
are now unintentionally Internet facing and wide open to attack from
anyone, regardless of their location.

Leveraging the power of cloud based services, Zscaler spent several
months scanning large portions of the Internet to understand the scope
of this threat. Our findings will make any business owner think twice
before purchasing a 'wifi enabled' device. We'll share the results of
our findings, reveal specific vulnerabilities in a multitude of
appliances and discuss how embedded web servers will represent a target
rich environment for years to come.

**`December``   ``13,``   ``2011,``   ``6:30,``   ``Microsoft``
 ``NERD,``   ``Cambridge,``   ``Horace``   ``Mann``   ``Room`**

**Jeremiah Grossman – Founder and CTO WhiteHat Security**

Directions:
<http://microsoftcambridge.com/About/Directions/tabid/89/Default.aspx>

**`September``   ``14``   ``2011`**

**Dinis Cruz - OWASP O2 Platform**

The O2 Platform is focused on automating application security knowledge
and workflows. It is a library of scriptable objects specifically
designed for developers and security consultants to be able to perform
quick, effective and thorough source code-driven application security
reviews (blackbox + whitebox).

**`September``   ``7``   ``2011`**

**Adriel Desautels – Differences between Penetration Testing and
Vulnerability Scanning**

**`July``   ``2011`**

**Anurag Agarwal, the founder of MyAppSecurity**

**Session 1 - Managing Risk with Threat Modeling** Threat Modeling can
help by guiding the Application Development Teams to ensure your
Security Policies get properly coded into the Applications at time of
Development. By creating pre-approved methods of coding for your
development teams, and applying them in a repeatable and scalable
process, you can assist your development teams in building a secure
application easily and effortlessly.

**Session 2 - False Positive, False Negative and False Sense of
Security** This interactive session will talk about the pros and cons of
using black box testing tools and discuss their effectiveness in
building a mature software security program.

**`Thursday``   ``June``   ``2`**

Location - **Microsoft NERD** -
<http://microsoftcambridge.com/About/Directions/tabid/89/Default.aspx>

**Topic - Bringing Sexy Back: Defensive Measures That Actually Work**

Presenter - Paul Asadoorian, Founder & CEO, PaulDotCom Enterprises

There is a plethora of information available on how to break into
systems, steal information, and compromise users. As a penetration
tester, I have performed testing on a regular basis that reveals severe
security weaknesses in several organizations, and many of my peers have
reported on the same. However, once you "own" the network and report on
how you accomplished your goals, now what? Sure, we make defensive
recommendations, but consistently it has been proven that security can
be bypassed. Not enough focus is given to what works defensively. We
have a lot of technology at our disposal: firewalls, intrusion
detection, log correlation, but it provides little protection from
today's threats and is often not implemented effectively. This talk will
focus on taking an offensive look at defense. Applying techniques that
are simple, yet break the mold of traditional defensive measures. We
will explore setting up "traps" for attackers, slowing them down with
simple scripts, using honeypots, planting bugs, and most importantly
tying these methods to "enterprise security". This talk will also
include real-world examples of the techniques in action from a live,
heavily attacked site. Topics will include:

  - Using wireless “attacks” on the attackers
  - Implementing the Metasploit Decloak engine to find the attackers
  - Setting traps to detect web application attacks
  - Integrating results into your enterprise log management tool

The goal of this talk is to make defense “sexy”…

**Presenter Bio**

Paul Asadoorian is currently the "Product Evangelist" for Tenable
Network Security, where he showcases vulnerability scanning and
management through blogs, podcasts and videos. Paul is also the founder
of PaulDotCom, an organization centered around the award winning
"PaulDotCom Security Weekly" podcast that brings listeners the latest in
security news, vulnerabilities, research and interviews with the
security industry's finest. Paul has a background in penetration
testing, intrusion detection, and is the co-author of "WRT54G Ultimate
Hacking", a book dedicated to hacking Linksys routers.

**`Thursday``   ``May``   ``26`**

Location - Microsoft Waltham (201 Jones Rd., Sixth Floor Waltham, MA)

**Topic - OWASP Top 10 issue \#4 – Insecure Direct Object Reference**

Presenter - Jim Weiler, Sr. Mgr. Information Security, Starwood Hotels
and President of OWASP Boston

Jim Weiler will discuss threat models, risks and various remediations of
issue \#4 in the 2010 OWASP Top 10 – Insecure Direct Object References.

**Topic - A Web-Application Architecture for Regulatory Compliant Cloud
Computing**

Presenter - Arshad Noor, StrongAuth

The emergence of cloud-computing as an alternative deployment strategy
for IT systems presents many opportunities, yet challenges traditional
notions of data-security. The fact that data-security regulations are
developing teeth, leaves information technology professionals perplexed
on how to take advantage of cloud-computing while proving compliance to
regulations for protecting sensitive information.

This presentation presents an architecture for building the next
generation of web-applications. This architecture allows you to leverage
emerging technologies such as cloud-computing, cloud-storage and
enterprise key-management (EKM) to derive benefits such as lower costs,
faster time-to-market and immense scalability with smaller investments -
while proving compliance to PCI-DSS, HIPAA/HITECH and similar
data-security regulations.

**Presenter Bio**

Arshad Noor is the CTO of StrongAuth, Inc, a Silicon Vally-based company
that specializes in enterprise key management. He is the designer and
lead-developer of StrongKey, the industry's first open-source Symmetric
Key Management System, and the KeyAppliance - the industry's first
appliance combining encryption, tokenization, key-management and a
cryptographic hardware module at an unprecedented value. He has written
many papers and spoken at many forums on the subject of encryption and
key-management over the years.

`''' CANCELLED   ''' `

**Topic – Secure Application design and Coding** -- CANCELLED

Presenter - Josh Abraham, Rapid 7

'''Speaker Bio '''

**`April``   ``2011`**

Ed Adams Security Innovation -- the new OWASP Exams Project and the work
being done by the OWASP Academies Working Group



**`March``   ``2011`**

Josh Abraham, Rapid 7

Owning the world, one mobile app at a time, and web services pen
testing.



**`Febrary``   ``2011`**

Rob Cheyne, CEO of Safelight Security -

Security Leadership series: Delivering a successful security
presentation



**`December``   ``2010`**

Application Architecture Security Assessment - Second session

Rob Cheyne, CEO SafeLight Security Advisors



**`November``   ``2010`**

Open SAMM – Software Assurance Maturity Model

Shakeel Tufail is the Federal Practice Manager at Fortify, an HP
company.



**`October``   ``2010`**

Rob Cheyne, CEO SafeLight Security Advisors Overview: In this highly
interactive two-part workshop, Rob Cheyne of Safelight Security will
show you the basics of conducting a real-world architecture & design
review. This workshop draws from Safelight's Security Architecture
Fundamentals training course, a two-day course frequently used to teach
Fortune 500 companies how to look at their system architectures from
both the hacker's and the designer’s point of view.

**`July``   ``2010`**

Lightning Talk – Rob Cheyne, CEO Safelight Security Advisors In this
installment of the Safelight lightning talks series, Rob will present
the basics of a Cross-site Request Forgery (CSRF).

Main Presentation - Drive-by Pharming with MonkeyFist

Joey Peloquin - Director of Application Security, Fishnet Security

**`June``   ``2010`**

Rob Cheyne Lightning Talk - topic to be announced

Main Presentation - Ryan Barnett The Web Hacking Incident Database
(WHID) is a Web Application Security Consortium project dedicated to
maintaining a list of web applications related security incidents. Ryan
Barnett is director of application security research at Breach Security
where he leads Breach Security Labs.

**`May``   ``2010`**

Rob Cheyne Lightning Talk - SQL Injection

Vinnie Liu - Data Exposure, New Approaches to Open Source Intelligence
Techniques, and Incident Handling



**`April``   ``2010`**

Dan Hestad Security Innovation Dan will be talking about his experiences
with PCI and web applications, and answering questions about do's and
don'ts of acceptable PCI practices in web applications.

**`March``   ``2010`**

Zack Lanier - Disclosure Samsara, or "the endless vulnerability
disclosure debate"

<http://n0where.org/talks/samsara_20100310.html>

<http://n0where.org/talks/samsara_20100310.pdf> (very large PDF)



**`February``   ``2010`**

Rob Cheyne of Safelight Security Advisors; New Technology, Same Old
Vulnerabilities



**`January``   ``2010``   ``at``   ``Microsoft``   ``NERD,``
 ``Cambridge`**

Josh Abraham, Rapid 7 Technologies

**`December``   ``2009`**

Eric Bender, Cenzic

**`November``   ``2009`**

Jim Weiler, Sr. Mgr. Information Security, Starwood Hotels - Web
Application Vulnerability Scanners

Mush Hakhinian, Leader, Application Security Practice, IntraLinks -
Secure coding with no money down using SONAR: unleashing the power of
open-source code analysis tools



**`October``   ``2009`**

Paul Schofield, Senior Security Engineer, Imperva - From Rivals to BFF:
WAF & VA Unite



**`September``   ``2009``   ``at``   ``CORE``   ``Technologies,``
 ``Boston`**

Paul Asadoorian, Pauldotcom.com

Alex Horan, CORE Security



**`May``   ``2009`**

Joey Peloquin, Fishnet Security, Secure SDLC: The Good, the Bad and the
Ugly [presentation
pdf](http://www.owasp.org/images/4/48/SecureSDLC-GoodBadUgly.pdf)



**`March``   ``2009`**

Sabha Kazerooni, Security Compass - Exploit Me tools; Framework Level
Threat Analysis

[ExploitMe
Document](http://www.owasp.org/images/5/5a/Security_Compass_Exploilt_Me.pdf)

[Framework Level Threat Analysis
document](http://www.owasp.org/images/e/ef/Security_Compass_Framework-level_Threat_Analysis.pdf)

Meeting Pizza Sponsor - Arcot

Arcot is a leader in online fraud prevention, strong authentication and
eDocument security. Arcot's solutions are easily deployed, low-cost and
extremely scalable, allowing organizations to transparently protect
their users from fraud without changing user behavior or requiring
expensive hardware.

Arcot can be contacted thru Michael Kreppein,
michael.kreppein@arcot.com, 617-467-5200

**`December``   ``2008`**

Brian Holyfield, Gothem Digital Science

Tamper Proofing Web Applications
<http://www.gdssecurity.com/l/b/2008/12/04/>

**`June``   ``2008`**

Jeremiah Grossman; Founder and CTO, Whitehat Security

Appetizer - Hacking Intranets from the Outside (Just when you thought
your network was safe) Port scanning with JavaScript

Main Topic - Business Logic Flaws: How they put your Websites at Risk

**`March``   ``2008`**

Chris Eng; Senior Director, Security Research, Veracode

Description – Attacking crypto in web applications

**`December``   ``2007`**

Scott Matsumoto; Principal Consultant, Cigital

Description – You Say Tomayto and I Say Tomahto – Talking to Developers
about Application Security

[Cigital
Presentation](https://www.owasp.org/images/5/5b/BostonOWASP200712-Cigital.pdf)

**`November``   ``2007`**

Tom Mulvehill Ounce Labs

Description – Tom will share his knowledge and expertise on implementing
security into the software development life cycle. This presentation
will cover how to bring practicality into secure software development.
Several integration models will be explored as well as solutions for
potential obstacles

[Ounce
presentation](https://www.owasp.org/images/f/f8/Ounce_OWASP_07NOV07ppt.zip)



**`October``   ``2007`**

George Johnson, Principal Software Engineer EMC; CISSP

An Introduction to Threat Modeling.



**`September``   ``2007`**

Day of Worldwide OWASP 1 day conferences on the topic "Privacy in the
21st Century"

**`June``   ``2007`**

Tool Talk - Jim Weiler - WebGoat and Crosssite Request Forgeries

Danny Allan; Director, Security Research, Watchfire

Topic: Exploitation of the OWASP Top 10: Attacks and Strategies

**`March``   ``2007`**

Jeremiah Grossman, CTO Whitehat Security: Top 10 Web Application Hacks
of 2006



**`January``   ``2007`**

Dave Low, RSA the Security Division of EMC: encryption case studies



**`November``   ``2006`**



**`September``   ``2006`**

Mike Gavin, Forrester Research: Web Application Firewalls



**`June``   ``2006`**

Imperva - Application and Database Vulnerabilities and Intrusion
Prevention

Jim Weiler - Using Paros Proxy Server as a Web Application Vulnerability
tool



**`May``   ``2006`**



**`April``   ``2006`**

Dennis Hurst; SPI Dynamics: A study of AJAX Hacking

Jim Weiler; OWASP Boston: Using Paros HTTP proxy, part 1. first meeting
with all demos, no powerpoints\!



**`March``   ``2006`**

Mateo Meucci; OWASP Italy [Anatomy of 2 web
attacks](http://www.owasp.org/images/8/8c/Anatomy_of_2_Web_App_Testing.zip)

Tom Stracener; Cenzic Web Application Vulnerabilities



**`February``   ``2006`**

Ron Ben Natan; Guardium CTO Database Security: Protecting Identity
Information at the Source



**`January``   ``2006`**

David Low, Senior Field Engineer: RSA Practical Encryption



**`December``   ``2005`**

Paul Galwas, Product Manager: nCipher [Enigma variations: Key Management
controlled](http://www.owasp.org/docroot/owasp/misc/OWASP051207.ppt)



**`November``   ``2005`**

Robert Hurlbut, Independent Consultant [Threat Modeling for web
applications](http://www.owasp.org/docroot/owasp/misc/OWASP_Hurlbut_ThreatModelingforWebApplicaitons.zip)



**`October``   ``2005`**

Prateek Mishra, Ph.D. Director, Security Standards and Strategy: Oracle
Corp Chaiman of the OASIS Security Services (SAML) Technical Committee -
[Identity Federation : Prospects and
Challenges](http://www.owasp.org/docroot/owasp/misc/Federation-Introduction-Overview-01.ppt)

Ryan Shorter, Sr. System Engineer: Netcontinuum - Application Security
Gateways



**`September``   ``2005`**

Dr. Herbert Thompson, Chief Security Strategist: SecurityInnovation -
How to Break Software Security



**`July``   ``2005`**

Mark O'Neill, CTO: Vordel - [Giving SOAP a REST? A look at the
intersection of Web Application Security and Web Services
Security](http://www.owasp.org/docroot/owasp/misc/MarkOneill.pdf)

**`June``   ``2005`**

Arian Evans, National Practice Lead, Senior Security Engineer: Fishnet
Security [Overview of Application Security
Tools](http://www.owasp.org/conferences/appsec2005dc/schedule.html)



**`May``   ``2005`**

Patrick Hynds, CTO: Critical Sites - [Passwords - Keys to the
Kingdom](http://www.owasp.org/docroot/owasp/misc/Passwords-Keys_to_the_Kingdom_Dev_V1.ppt)



**`April``   ``2005`**

Jonathan Levin - [Of Random
Numbers](http://www.owasp.org/docroot/owasp/misc/JLevinRandoms.pdf)

Jothy Rosenberg, Founder and CTO: Service Integrity - [Web Services
Security](http://www.owasp.org/docroot/owasp/misc/JothyRWebSvcsSec.ppt)



**`March``   ``2005`**

Joe Stagner: Microsoft Let's talk about Application Security



**`Feb``   ``2005`**

Application Security Inc. PowerPoint slides for the [Anatomy of a
Database
Attack.](http://www.owasp.org/docroot/owasp/misc/Anatomy+of+an+Attack.ppt)

## Local Chapter Information

To find out more about the Boston chapter, just join the [OWASP Boston
mailing list](http://lists.owasp.org/mailman/listinfo/owasp-boston).

The chapter shipping/mailing address is:

OWASP Boston
35 Wachusett Dr
Lexington, MA 02421

## Links

[Reviews of security
podcasts](http://www.owasp.org/index.php/Reviews_of_security_podcasts)

[Boston Application Security
Conference 2017](https://www.owasp.org/index.php/2017_BASC_Homepage)

[Boston Application Security Conference
2016](2016_BASC_Homepage "wikilink")

[Boston Application Security Conference
2015](2015_BASC_Homepage "wikilink")

[Boston Application Security Conference
2014](2014_BASC_Homepage "wikilink")

[Boston Application Security Conference
2013](2013_BASC_Homepage "wikilink")

[Boston Application Security Conference
2012](2012_BASC_Homepage "wikilink")

[Boston Application Security Conference
2011](2011_BASC_Homepage "wikilink")

[Boston Application Security Conference
2010](2010_BASC_Homepage "wikilink")

## Boston OWASP Chapter Leaders

**Contact**

  - Email the [chapter leaders](mailto:boston-leaders@owasp.org).

**President**

  - [Jim Weiler](mailto:jim.weiler@owasp.org)

**Board of Directors**

  - [LindaLeigh Aberdale](mailto:lindaleigh.aberdale@owasp.org)
  - [Mark Arnold](mailto:mark.arnold@owasp.org)
  - [Tom Conner](mailto:tom.conner@owasp.org)
  - [Mike Perez](mailto:mike.perez@owasp.org)
  - [Roy Wattanasin](mailto:roy.wattanasin@owasp.org)
  - [Pedro Marcano](mailto:pedro.marcano@owasp.org)
  - [Mark Schlepphorst](mailto:Mark.Schlepphorst@owasp.org)
  - [Ori Zigindere](mailto:Ori.Zigindere@owasp.org)

__NOTOC__

[Category:Boston](Category:Boston "wikilink")
[Category:OWASP_Chapter](Category:OWASP_Chapter "wikilink")
[Category:Massachusetts](Category:Massachusetts "wikilink")