## **Notes From Boulder OWASP 2007 Meetings**

### ***November Meeting Notes*** - Patrick White - Aspect-Oriented Programming

**Security and AOP (Aspect Oriented Programming)**

Many thanks to [Corporate Express](http://www.cexp.com) for providing
the facilities, to [Coalfire Systems](http://www.coalfiresystems.com)
for providing dinner, and to [Fortify
Software](http://www.fortifysoftware.com/) for providing the speaker\!

Speaker: Patrick White, Program Manager for .[Fortify
Software](http://www.fortifysoftware.com/).

Topic: Security and AOP

Aspect Oriented Programming is an incredibly interesting methodology
that has gradually gained popularity over the years. As interesting as
the concepts are, they are often admittedly difficult to actualize. In
this talk Patrick will be examining what AOP is and how it can make a
real and meaningful impact during your development. In addition, he'll
look at how powerful security features can be added to an application
using AOP either in sync or out sync with development.

Bio: Patrick White is a Program Manager at Fortify Software. He holds a
BS in Computer Engineering and Computer Science from the University of
Southern California and has earned numerous Microsoft certifications
including MCSE, MCSD, and MCPD. He previously worked for several Bay
Area startups and was at Microsoft before joining the Fortify Software
team.

Patrick's presentation can be found here:
<https://www.owasp.org/images/2/27/SecurityAndAOPII_FortifySoftware20071115.pdf>
***Yeah, sometimes it's OK to bolt on security after the fact...***

### ***September Meeting Notes*** - Jeremiah Grossman - Top 10 Web Attack Techniques, their Potential Impact, and Strategies to Protect Your Company

**First Boulder OWASP Meeting was held September 20th, 2007** Jeremiah's
presentation was OUTSTANDING and MUCH APPRECIATED. Jeremiah kindly
allowed it to be posted here:

<https://www.owasp.org/images/f/f8/OWASP_Boulder_09202007.pdf>

MANY THANKS to [Whitehat Security](http://www.whitehatsec.com),
[Corporate Express](http://www.cexp.com/), [Business Partner
Solutions](http://www.businesspartnersolutions.com/), and all who
attended for making this a success\!

There was also a brief discussion about integrating security into the
SDLC. Here's a link for a GREAT presentation done by Michael Walters.
Note the diagrams on slide 13:

<http://www.squadco.com/presentations/OWASP_Denver.pdf>

Also, if your QA team isn't aware of SQuAD (the Software Quality
Association of Denver) you may want to point them to www.squadco.com as
a resource.

***September Meeting*** **First Boulder OWASP Meeting to be held
September 20th, 2007**

Site: [**Corporate Express US Headquarters**](http://www.cexp.com/) 1
Environmental Way Broomfield, CO 80021

Time: Dinner and beverages will be available starting at 6 PM,
compliments of [Business Partner
Solutions](http://www.businesspartnersolutions.com/). Presentation will
start at 6:30.

Speaker: Jeremiah Grossman, CTO of [WhiteHat
Security](http://www.whitehatsec.com).

Topic: Top 10 Web Attack Techniques, their Potential Impact, and
Strategies to Protect Your Company

To date, information security has been focused mainly on vulnerabilities
at the network and software (OS, web server, etc.) levels. However, a
new battleground is quickly developing that poses an even greater threat
to companies’ brands/reputations and data. As companies drive more and
more business processes to the web, vulnerabilities in their custom Web
applications have become the new target for a new class of hackers. And
the payoff is now financial gain, not personal notoriety.

Jeremiah Grossman will: – Reveal the top 10 attacks of 2006 by
creativity and scope – Predict what these attacks mean for website
vulnerability management in 2007 – Present strategies to protect your
corporate websites

Bio: Jeremiah Grossman is the founder and CTO of WhiteHat Security,
considered a world-renowned expert in Web security, co-founder of the
Web Application Security Consortium, and recently named to InfoWorld's
Top 25 CTOs for 2007. Mr. Grossman is a frequent speaker at industry
events including the BlackHat Briefings, RSA, ISACA, CSI, OWASP,
Vanguard, ISSA, Defcon, and a number of large universities. He has
authored dozens of articles and white papers; is credited with the
discovery of many cutting-edge attack and defensive techniques; and is a
co-author of XSS Attacks. Mr. Grossman is frequently quoted in major
media publications such as InfoWorld, USA Today, PCWorld, Dark Reading,
SC Magazine, SecurityFocus, Cnet, SC Magazine, CSO, and InformationWeek.
Prior to WhiteHat he was an information security officer at Yahoo\!

## Local News 2007

**`XSS``   ``defense``   ``-``   ``the``   ``"dimuitive``   ``worm``
 ``contest"`**

RSnake hosted a contest to write the smallest XSS worm. His results are
here: [XSS Worm Analysis And Defense](http://ha.ckers.org/xss-worms/).
It's good reading for anyone trying to come to grips with XSS
prevention.

**`Flash``   ``Security``   ``Testing`**

The team working on the [OWASP Flash Security
Project](http://www.owasp.org/index.php/Category:OWASP_Flash_Security_Project)
has released the
[SWFIntruder](https://www.owasp.org/index.php/Category:SWFIntruder) tool
to detect flash security issues like XSS and Cross-Site Flashing. It's
worth a look.

**`Aspect-Oriented``   ``Programming`**

Security Focus has a very interesting article regarding AOP and security
written by Rohit Sethi on October 16th, 2007. It complements and
reinforces the [AOP
talk](https://www.owasp.org/index.php/Boulder#November_Meeting_Notes)
given by Pat White from Fortify Software for the Nov Chapter Meeting. If
you know of any other useful AOP references please share by posting to
the chapter mailing list...

**`Cool``   ``References``   ``-``   ``November``   ``28th,``
 ``2007`**

Google for "Microsoft AntiXSS Library" and you'll see some pretty cool
resources for **stifling Cross-Site-Scripting problems**.

OWASP has a similar project:
<http://www.owasp.org/index.php/Category:OWASP_Encoding_Project>

in addition to the ***OWASP Enterprise Security API project*** (which
looks REALLY COOL):

<http://www.owasp.org/index.php/ESAPI>

Finally, many of the OWASP wikis are available as books, either for
purchase in hard-copy or as a *free download*:

Online bookstore = <http://stores.lulu.com/owasp> Shirts hats etc...
<http://www.cafepress.com/owasp>

**`Boulder``   ``OWASP``   ``News``   ``-``   ``November``   ``15th,``
 ``2007`**

Several Security Professionals have expressed interest in serving as
Chapter Officers or part of a Board of Directors. If this is of interest
to you too please contact [Andy](mailto:owasp@justplainpix.com). We
expect to assemble interested parties in early Dec to plan out 2008.

## **What should I expect to see at a bOWASP meeting?**

Each speaker will be encouraged to cover:

`- demonstration of the threat ( "look!  I got EVERYONE'S credit card #!")`
`- overview/sample of vulnerable code, preferably in PHP, Java, or .Net env.`
`- some details regarding how to correct the code`
`- some thoughts as to how to test for the problem and/or "immunize" against it during a typical SDLC`
`- additional tools and references`