## Notes From Boulder OWASP 2008 Meetings

### ***FROCo8 Slides - FRONT RANGE OWASP CONFERENCE 2008***

Here are the links to the available presentations from FROCo8:

Jeremiah Grossman Business Logic Flaws - 7 Deadly Sins
[Media:FROCo8_JeremiahGrossman_BizLogicFlaws.pdf](Media:FROCo8_JeremiahGrossman_BizLogicFlaws.pdf "wikilink")

Akshay Aggarwal Application Security Kung-Fu Competitive Advantage from
Threat Modeling
[Media:ApplicationSecurityKungFuByAkshayAggarwal-FrontRangeOWASP-10Jun08.pdf](Media:ApplicationSecurityKungFuByAkshayAggarwal-FrontRangeOWASP-10Jun08.pdf "wikilink")

[**Robert Hansen Web Browser
(In)Security**](https://www.owasp.org/images/f/fe/OWASP-06092008-v1.pdf)

Mike Zusman SSL VPN Security [Blog post containing
slides](http://schmoil.blogspot.com/2008/06/recent-owasp-events.html)

More [info](https://www.froc.us/) about the event

[*' Planning
page*'](http://www.owasp.org/index.php/Front_Range_Web_Application_Security_Summit_Planning_Page),

### [October 2008: Alex Smolen: the ASP .NET ESAPI](October_2008:_Alex_Smolen:_the_ASP_.NET_ESAPI "wikilink")

### Sept 2008 - Black Box vs. White Box: Different App Testing Strategies (John Dickson of Denim Group)

Competing approaches for application security testing have pros and
cons. This presentation will look at and discuss a number of security
assessment strategies including white box testing, black box testing,
static analysis and dynamic analysis.

[Download the
presentation](https://www.owasp.org/images/e/e5/BBvsWB_Denver.pdf)

BIO – John Dickson

John Dickson is a principal at \[www.denimgroup.com Denim Group, Ltd.\]
and a Certified Information Systems Security Professional (CISSP) whose
technical background includes hands-on experience with intrusion
detection systems, telephony security and application security. He has
consulted with Fortune 500 clients, Department of Defense organizations
and numerous Chief Information Officers regarding their organizations’
security programs and has served as Chief Information Security Officer
for a major healthcare organization.

John Dickson is a former U.S. Air Force officer who specialized in
network defense and command and control while on active duty and Air
Force Reserves. He joined Denim Group after holding several leadership
positions at high profile organizations including Regional Vice
President of International Operations and Director of Consulting at
SecureLogix Corporation, Senior Account Manager at Trident Data Systems
and Manager at KPMG’s Information Risk Management consulting practice.
In these positions, he specialized in network penetration projects,
firewall project management, enterprise security reviews, security
architecture development, intrusion detection and more.

John regularly speaks in front of numerous security groups including the
Information Systems Security Association (ISSA) and the Information
Systems Audit and Control Association (ISACA). He has also presented at
several conferences including CSI 2007, the annual Computer Security
Institute Conference, the Texas Regional Infrastructure Security
Conference (TRISC) and ConSec 2006. He is a founder and chairman of the
San Antonio Technology Accelerator Initiative (SATAI), a founder of the
Alamo Chapter of ISSA and the Chairman Elect of the North San Antonio
Chamber of Commerce.

He holds a Bachelor of Science degree from Texas A\&M University, a
Master of Science degree from Trinity University in San Antonio, Texas,
and an MBA from the University of Texas at Austin.

More about John: <http://www.denimgroup.com/about_team_john.html>

### Aug 2008 ***Static Analysis Techniques for Testing Application Security* (Dan Cornell of The Denim Group)**

Static Analysis of software refers to examining source code and other
software artifacts without executing them. This presentation looks at
how these techniques can be used to identify security defects in
applications. Approaches examined will range from simple keyword search
methods used to identify calls to banned functions through more
sophisticated data flow analysis used to identify more complicated
issues such as injection flaws. In addition, a demonstration will be
given of two freely-available static analysis tools: FindBugs for the
Java platform and FXCop for the .NET platform. Finally, some approaches
will be presented on how organizations can start using static analysis
tools as part of their development and quality assurance processes.

**Dan Cornell** has over ten years of experience architecting and
developing web-based software systems. He leads Denim Group’s security
research team in investigating the application of secure coding and
development techniques to improve web-based software development
methodologies.

Dan was the founding coordinator and chairman for the Java Users Group
of San Antonio (JUGSA) and is currently the San Antonio chapter leader
of the Open Web Application Security Project (OWASP). He is a recognized
expert in the area of web application security for
SearchSoftwareQuality.com and the primary author of
[Sprajax](http://www.owasp.org/index.php/Category:OWASP_Sprajax_Project),
OWASP’s open source tool for assessing the security of AJAX-enabled web
applications.

[Slide deck
(PPT)](https://www.owasp.org/images/1/1d/DenimGroup_StaticAnalysisTechniquesForTestingApplicationSecurity_OWASPDenver_20080820.pdf)

### July 2008 ***Intro to Grendel - a WebApp PenTesting Tool (WebApp Pentesting for Dummies?)* David Byrne and Eric Duprey**

David Byrne and Eric Duprey will be presenting their latest work -
Grendel. Grendel is a tool that's been developed to automate some appsec
testing. During this presentation, these guys will show how to use
Grendel to accelerate webapp pen testing. David Byrne is an infosec
veteran, with experience ranging from penetration testing for Fortune
100's to architecting security solutions for large multinational
financials to consulting for government agencies. David is presently
part of the team at Trustwave. Eric Duprey is a Senior Security Engineer
for Dish Network Corporation and co-leader of the Denver OWASP Chapter.
The [Grendel blog](http://www.grendel-scan.com/blog/) is the place to go
to stay current, download updates, etc. if you can't find it on the
[Grendel homepage](http://www.grendel-scan.com/).

### '''''May 2008 Meeting Notes - David C Campbell and Eric Duprey - Cross Site Scripting, Exploits and Defenses

Topic: Cross Site Scripting, Exploits and Defenses Sponsor: [FishNet
Security](http://www.fishnetsecurity.com/)

For a long time, the impact of XSS vulnerabilities has been grossly
underestimated. Recent compromises, such as the pro-Hillary
[defacement](http://cyberinsecure.com/hacked-obama-site-redirects-visitors-to-clintons-site/)
of Barack Obama's website demonstrated the impact of XSS vulnerabilities
to the masses. During this presentation, we demonstrated exactly how
effective XSS vulns can be, and showed you what you can do to protect
yourself and your sites. The practicalities of doing live-demos meant
that each night we had one demo fail. At Denver it was the live session
stealing demo against a production website. In Boulder it was the
browser-based botnet. Nevertheless, we hope that you found the
presentations interesting, and the interactive format a welcome change.
[Slide
deck](https://www.owasp.org/index.php/Image:DC_ED_OWASP_XSS_MAY2008_v1.0.pdf)
Note that alot of the content is hidden in the speakers notes of the
presentation, which we need to sanitize a bit to protect to guilty prior
to posting. Speakers Chapter leaders David Campbell and Eric Duprey
presented on the emerging threat of cross site scripting (XSS)
vulnerabilities. David Campbell is an infosec veteran, with experience
ranging from penetration testing for Fortune 100's to architecting
security solutions for large multinational financials to consulting for
government agencies. DC is presently head of security engineering for
Raytheon Polar Services, and is also on the board of directors of
Psiframe Inc., a San Francisco based security consultancy. Eric Duprey
is a Senior Security Engineer for Dish Network Corporation.

### ***April 2008 Meeting Notes - Ryan C. Barnett - Dynamic Vulnerability Identification: Continuous Web Application Assessment***

The sponsor was Breach Security, and the speaker was Ryan C. Barnett of
Breach Security. Ryan demonstrated the concept of using a Web
Application Firewall (WAF) as a means of detecting vulnerabilities.

Ryan's presentation is available in PDF format
[here.](https://www.owasp.org/images/f/fd/OWASP_Dynamic_Vulnerability_Identification_RyanBarnett200804.pdf)

Identifying web application vulnerabilities has traditionally been
achieved by running vulnerability scanners. While these tools can been
effective, they have some deficiencies, mainly that they are simply
snap-shots in time and they often add network load on the web
application. Web application firewalls can help to detect application
defects in applications by monitoring the application as it is used. In
this presentation, Ryan Barnett, Director of Application Security at
Breach, will discuss how deploying a web application firewall can
provide more value beyond simply protecting applications from attack.
Due to their strategic placement within the application's communication
stream, web application firewalls, can provide a great deal of
visibility into how an application is used and detect defects by
watching the interaction between the application and a client.

Ryan C. Barnett is a recognized security thought leader and evangelist
who frequently speaks with the media and industry groups. He is the
director of application security at Breach Security. He is also a
faculty member for the SANS Institute, where his duties include
instructor/courseware developer for Apache Security/Building a Web
Application Firewall Workshop, Top 20 Vulnerabilities Team Member and
Local Mentor for the SANS Track 4, "Hacker Techniques, Exploits and
Incident Handling" course. He holds six SANS Global Information
Assurance Certifications (GIAC): Intrusion Analyst (GCIA), Systems and
Network Auditor (GSNA), Forensic Analyst (GCFA), Incident Handler
(GCIH), Unix Security Administrator (GCUX) and Security Essentials
(GSEC). Mr. Barnett also serves as the team lead for the Center for
Internet Security Apache Benchmark Project and is a member of the Web
Application Security Consortium. His web security book, ["Preventing Web
Attacks with
Apache,”](http://www.amazon.com/Preventing-Attacks-Apache-Ryan-Barnett/dp/0321321286)
was published by Addison/Wesley in 2006.

### ***February 2008 Meeting Notes - Michael Sutton - SQL Injection***

The sponsor was HP, and the speaker was Michael Sutton of [HP/SPI
Dynamics](https://h10078.www1.hp.com/cda/hpms/display/main/hpms_content.jsp?zn=bto&cp=1-11-201_4000_100__).
Topics included:

1\. Data tampering via SQL injection (verbose and blind)

2\. Guidance regarding WHAT TO DO and WHAT RESOURCES ARE AVAILABLE for
input validation (aka data validation).

3\. SQL injection against AJAX

4\. Intro and results of Michael Sutton's FUGGLE project

Michael's slide deck is available in PDF format [Sutton:Revisiting SQL
Injection](https://www.owasp.org/index.php/Image:Sutton_-_Revisiting_SQL_Injection.pdf)

**Michael Sutton** is the co-author of ["Fuzzing : Brute Force
Vulnerability
Discovery"](http://www.amazon.com/Fuzzing-Brute-Force-Vulnerability-Discovery/dp/0321446119)
and the Security Evangelist for SPI Dynamics, recently acquired by HP.
Michael is responsible for identifying, researching and presenting on
emerging issues in the web application security industry. He is a
frequent speaker at major information security conferences, has authored
much literature and is regularly quoted in the media on various
information security topics. Michael is also a member of the Web
Application Security Consortium (WASC), where he is project lead for the
Web Application Security Statistics project.

Prior to joining SPI Dynamics, Michael was the Director for iDefense
Labs, a team of world class researchers tasked with discovering and
researching security vulnerabilities. Michael also established the
Information Systems Assurance and Advisory Services (ISAAS) practice for
Ernst & Young in Bermuda. He holds degrees from the University of
Alberta and The George Washington University.

### '''''January 2008 Meeting Notes - Aman Garg - Web App Protection, Tips for QA and Testing '''''

Aman Garg of [TippingPoint](http://www.tippingpoint.com) presented
**"Success Stories for Resolving App Security Bugs"**. The 2 things that
got my attention were common evasion techinques and his commitment to
spending \~20% of available testing/QA time doing UNstructured testing.
It must be working - [TippingPoint](http://www.tippingpoint.com) is the
market leader in the IPS space. Many thanks to Aman for presenting, to
[TippingPoint](http://www.tippingpoint.com) for sponsoring, and to
[Corporate Express](http://www.cexp.com) for hosting as we all try to
get better at writing more secure code\!

-----

Outline for January 17th:

Web app protection

  - php exploit demo
  - primer on php vulnerabilities and various layers at which these can
    be exploited
  - primer on XSS (cross site scripting) vulnerabilities
  - what you can do to make your web apps more secure

My experiences running QA/testing at TippingPoint

  - conventional wisdom in testing (make a million test cases, really
    comprehensive regression testing)
  - challenges in testing
  - tradeoff between responsiveness and thorough QA cycle
  - making processes secure & tamper proof
  - architecture issues - separating platform from application
  - best practices & recommendations from my experience

-----

Aman's Bio: A veteran in the network security industry with over 10
years of experience, Aman Garg is currently Principal Architect at
TippingPoint, where his current work focuses on design and research for
new products and solutions, partnerships with other solution providers,
and prototyping technology concepts. He has worn several different hats
at TippingPoint - most recently, running the market /competitive
analysis group, and leading the certification effort of TippingPoint
products by NSS & ICSA Labs.

Mr. Garg holds an MBA from University of Texas Austin, a Masters in
Electrical Engineering from Texas A\&M University, and a bachelors in
Electrical Engineering from Indian Institute of Technology, Kanpur. His
interests are in network security and network performance testing
arenas. His research work on mitigating Denial of Service attacks has
been cited by several academic journals.

## 2007 Meetings

[All 2007
Meetings](https://www.owasp.org/index.php?title=Boulderchaptermeetings2008)

## Chapter Leader Links

[Well-written, well-referenced SQL injection
article](http://unixwiz.net/techtips/sql-injection.html)

[Cool MS Ace Team Blog](http://blogs.msdn.com/ace_team/default.aspx)

<https://www.owasp.org/index.php/About_OWASP>

<https://www.owasp.org/index.php/How_OWASP_Works>

<https://www.owasp.org/index.php?title=How_OWASP_Works&diff=22690&oldid=15689>
(this is a previous version of the 'How OWASP Works' page which contains
some ideas about the future)

<https://www.owasp.org/index.php/OWASP_brand_usage_rules>

<https://www.owasp.org/index.php/Chapter_Rules>

<https://www.owasp.org/index.php/Chapter_Leader_Handbook>

<https://www.owasp.org/index.php/Category:Chapter_Resources>

<http://www.owasp.org/index.php/Tutorial#Editing_OWASP>

And finally, if you haven't seen this amazing page created by Sebastien
a while back with descirptions and links to past OWASP presentations,
you must check it out now:
<http://www.owasp.org/index.php/OWASP_Education_Presentation>

Of particular interest:
<https://www.owasp.org/images/d/df/OWASP_-_Presentation_for_potential_sponsorships.doc>