<paypal>Brisbane</paypal>

## Local News

#### Presenters and Presentations

We are forever looking for volunteers to present at the chapter
meetings, so if you've seen something interesting or you have something
to say, please let us know.

Often, when we approach potential presenters, we tend to get the
following response – “I don’t think my topic is interesting enough”. We
just want to stress that as long as the topic is security related –
we’re all ears\! We’re just a bunch of nice people wanting to
learn/share our knowledge of the security domain. So if you would like
to present or know of someone that does, please contact us.

Presentations must be vendor agnostic (no selling of products or
services), and please review the Speaker Agreement linked above.

## Chapter Meetings

**Upcoming Brisbane Chapter Meeting - Thursday 7<sup>th</sup> March
2019**

*Speaker: Nick Baker*

*Topic*: This evening session will provide an introduction into the
differences between a bug bounty program and traditional penetration
testing, and how these can help enhance your application security
strategy in different ways. Nick Baker will also delve into insights
into the perspectives of the researchers conducting the testing, and
share his insights into managing one of Australia's successful bug
bounty programs.

*Location*: Red Hat, 193 N Quay, Brisbane City

*Time:* 5:30pm for a 6pm start. Lifts will be locked after 6pm. Please
arrive before then\!

*Date:* Thursday 7th March 2019

*Close:* Session is expected to be completed by 7:30pm to 8:00pm.

*RSVP:* There are limited seats. Please RSVP
at [<http://meetu.ps/e/GqpXh/Cy27V/f>](https://www.meetup.com/en-AU/OWASP-Brisbane-Application-Security/events/256463756/)

There will be a social/networking gathering after the talk. Everyone is
welcome to attend\!

#### Brisbane OWASP Chapter Leaders

The chapter leaders are [Wade Alcorn](mailto:wade@bindshell.net) and
[Glyn Geoghegan](mailto:glyng@owasp.org) __NOTOC__
<headertabs></headertabs>

[Category:Australia](Category:Australia "wikilink")