One the most overlooked aspects of application security is usability.
Users are often the weakest link in a software system. If security
controls embedded in software systems hinder users’ ability to
accomplish their tasks, users will ignore or try to bypass such
controls, a common occurrence in today's systems. Building usable
security functions is a significant component of building secure
systems.

Security engineers generally lack experience in usability engineering.
One of the main reasons why application security violations continue to
rise, is the fact that many deployed security mechanism are not user
friendly, limiting their effectiveness. Unless engineers start thinking
more about how to make security more usable, progress in securing
systems will be limited.

Many people believe that there is an inherent tradeoff between security
and usability. However, that does not have to be the case.

Since today most security pop-ups are overlooked, most scan reminders
are ignored and most updates are automated or not taken care of. In such
a situation, it becomes important for the developers to come up with
workable solutions. These could be by making security more
understandable and usable through the following ways:

•Invisibly strengthening security i.e working behind the scenes-
Strengthening the spam filters and various algorithms used to scan
attachments, emails and downloads i.e strengthening the anti-virus
software algorithms and training them to work better.

•Making security understandable- Various tools like Spoofguard and
others may be helpful in making the user realize when he/she faces a
threat. Security pop-ups when a malicious script is executed or the
browser address bar turning red incase of an insecure website being
accessed are some possible ways.

•Training the user- Various web and mobile applications today aim to
train the user to make them realize what an actual threat looks like and
how to cope with it. A system generated phishing email could be sent to
users who on clicking the link, reach a page which educates them about
the consequences if the email had really been a phishing link is an
example.

The challenge to security tools, applications and services can be dealt
with by giving the user the control to privacy and security of their
systems i.e User Controllable Privacy and Security. This can only be
done in an effective way if the security measures implemented are
understandable and easy to maneuver for a lay user and instance of which
could be- instead of having 13 different screens as in Windows to change
file permissions, have a single, comprehensible one. New user interfaces
need to be developed effectively and efficiently to support users in
managing the privacy and security policies that they themselves
implement and also the ones implemented by their system.