## The presentation

![Owasp_logo_normal.jpg](Owasp_logo_normal.jpg
"Owasp_logo_normal.jpg")Like many companies, Boeing historically relied
on contracted security vendors to provide various IT security
assessments. However, as part of taking a more proactive approach to
application security, Boeing decided to bring this service in-house and
build an internal assessment team. We learned a lot about what it takes
to run an effective team and maybe some of our lessons will be useful to
others who are trying to establish their own teams. This discussion
covers the full life cycle including intake processes, risk analysis,
standardizing findings and remediation, designing and issuing reports
and managing corrective actions. I also touch on other issues like
metric reporting and integration with secure software development teams.

## The speaker

Keith Turpin leads the application security assessment team at The
Boeing Company and is a member of Boeing?s Enterprise Red Team. Over the
years he has held various IT security positions, including lead IT
security advisor for Boeing?s international operations and security
analyst for several programs. He also led the development of processes
and standards for several of the company?s IT security assessment teams.
Keith served four years as the Director of Communication for the Puget
Sound chapter of the ISSA and is still actively involved. He also served
three years on the ISSA Executive Planning Committee for ISSA NW
regional conferences. Keith has a BA in Mechanical Engineering and MS in
Computer Systems. He is actively involved in engineering education and
is director of one of the largest multi-college engineering competitions
in the Northwest and is an award winning speaker on engineering
education.

[Category:OWASP_AppSec_DC_09](Category:OWASP_AppSec_DC_09 "wikilink")
[Category:OWASP_Conference_Presentations](Category:OWASP_Conference_Presentations "wikilink")