## The presentation

![OWASP_IL_2008_01_Ofer_Shezaf.jpg](OWASP_IL_2008_01_Ofer_Shezaf.jpg
"OWASP_IL_2008_01_Ofer_Shezaf.jpg") While researchers often pointed out
that the real threat to web applications are logic issues rather than
syntactic issues, little was done to actually analyze those threats,
classify them and suggest protective means. Our presentation focuses on
understanding, classifying and offering ways to mitigate one family of
business logic attacks: the automated kind. While syntactic issues such
as SQL injection and XSS vulnerabilities are prevalent, they are well
understood and therefore readily mitigated. However business logic
automation attacks present an entirely different problem: it is often
very hard to distinguish abuse from normal use. Furthermore, in many
cases the attack may be harmful to the victim, but not unlawful or even
not ill intended by the attacker. A good example would be comparative
shopping which started as leeching on e-commerce sites and is now
considered a mainstream marketing method. The presentation will cover a
long list of attacks including Brute Forcing, Resource Locking, Web
Spam, Click Fraud, Queue Jumping, Auction Sniping, Poll Skewing &
Leeching. We will show that in many cases the line between good and bad
is fine, will discuss the pros and cons of existing anti-automation
solutions and suggest and present a solution based on ModSecurity to non
intrusively modify the business flow to mitigate some of these attacks.

## The speakers

Ofer Shezaf is an active member of the Web Application Security
Community. Ofer leads the OWASP Israeli Chapter for the last 5 years and
is a member of OWASP global chapter committee. Ofer runs Xiom.com, a
community web site devoted to Web Application Firewalls and is a major
contributor to ModSecurity, an open source web application firewall.
Ofer also leads two important industry projects: The Web Application
Firewall Evaluation Criteria and the Web Hacking Incidents Database,
both under the Web Applicatoin Security Consortium's ubmrella. Ofer is a
frequent speaker in security conferences and spoke in the past at
BlackHat and in many OWASP conferences and chapter meetings. In his day
job, Ofer does security product definition at Better Place, a company
whose mission is to create the infrastructure enabling wide spread use
of electric cars. Prior to Joining Better Place Ofer held senior
management position in security research and product management at
Breach Security, a leading WAF vendor.

Amichai Shulman is co-founder and CTO of Imperva, where he heads the
Application Defense Center (ADC), Imperva's internationally recognized
research organization focused on security and compliance. Mr. Shulman
regularly lectures at trade conferences such as RSA, OWASP, INFOSEC and
delivers monthly eSeminars. The press draws on Mr. Shulman's expertise
to comment on breaking news, including security breaches, mitigation
techniques, and related technologies. Under his direction, the ADC has
been credited with the discovery of serious vulnerabilities in
commercial Web application and database products, including Oracle, IBM,
and Microsoft. Prior to Imperva, Mr. Shulman was founder and CTO of
Edvice Security Services Ltd., a consulting group that provided
application and database security services to major financial
institutions, including Web and database penetration testing and
security strategy, design and implementation. Mr. Shulman served in the
Israel Defense Forces, where he led a team that identified new computer
attack and defense techniques. He has B.Sc and Masters Degrees in
Computer Science from the Technion, Israel Institute of Technology

[Category:OWASP_AppSec_DC_09](Category:OWASP_AppSec_DC_09 "wikilink")
[Category:OWASP_Conference_Presentations](Category:OWASP_Conference_Presentations "wikilink")