Today's enterprise and the end users have increasingly become dependent
on IT applications. IT Applications (most of them are web based) allow
customers/users to directly access personal and confidential
information, encouraging self-driven model, decreasing business cost.
Critical business functions are dependent successful functioning of the
IT applications e.g. enterprise such as eBay, Amazon.com has most of
their business dependent on their Internet facing flagship applications.

There is exponential increase in vulnerabilities found in Web
Applications putting significant financial impact to the enterprise and
privacy of the end users. Gartner's recent studies\[1\] shows that
hackers are moving towards web application based attacks, 75% of total
attacks now occur on Web applications. Systems and network
administrators in last 5-10 years (end 1990s to early 00s) have achieved
significant maturity on controlling OS and network level attacks. Strong
OS hardening/patching procedures coupled with well managed firewalls
provides sufficient surety to the business that these layers are secure
and not easy to penetrate.

This is yet not true for applications, especially web applications. Web
applications provide a logical tunnel from outside/Internet to the
backend databases inside the enterprise. Web applications are complex
piece of code with a mix of customized business logic, third party
libraries, back-end database routines and integration to multiple other
applications. Complexity increases potential points of failures. A
recent study by penetration testers \[2\] shows that more than 95% of
web applications have some sort of vulnerability.

## What pressures business is coming under?

**Compliance and Regulatory Needs**

Sarbanes-Oxley for financial accounting, HIPAA for safe handling of
medical records, Gramm-Leach-Bliley for privacy of customer and PCI to
safely process and handle credit card information. List is endless.
Achieving compliance to regulations imposed by government and industry
is one of the top priorities for business. Compliance entails having
strong security controls in your IT applications and associated
processes. Security assessment helps to check compliances and in some
case required.

**Increasing Cost of Security Breaches**

Cost of security breaches is increasing. It is not only loosing the
customer confidence but enterprise may end up paying heavy penalties.
Payment Card Industry (PCI) recently announced $50,000 fine per incident
if cardholder data is compromised. ChoicePoint, lost information of
145,000 customers in 2005 and ended up spending $11.4 million in related
cost.

**Awareness of Users**

Users have become much more aware and attentive towards the privacy,
confidentiality and safekeeping of their personal information. Media has
helped to create awareness. Comments like ".. I refused to enter my
credit card information as I don't see the padlock \[SSL\] at bottom of
my browser window..." are common.

**What is there to lose**

Ultimate question for business may be what is there to lose.

  - Data, which may be the biggest asset in the enterprise
  - Public Image and Confidence of Customers
  - Availability of applications causing unplanned blackouts for
    business

We have talked about what are potential business impacts due to insecure
applications. Application Security Assessment helps to figure out what
are the weaknesses and potential issues in our web application. Helps
business spend the security dollars where it is most required. And way
to consistently keep our applications one notch higher than the
attackers.

## References

\[1\]. Gartner, Nov 2005 \<<http://gartner.com>\>

\[2\]. Studies from numerous penetration tests by Imperva
\<<http://www.imperva.com/application_defense_center/papers/how_safe_is_it.html>\>

## External Resources

**[Business Plan Writer](http://www.bizplancorner.com/) | [Business Plan
Writers](http://www.bizplancorner.com/articles/22/business-plan-writers.aspx)
| [Business Plan Writing
Service](http://www.bizplancorner.com/articles/1/business_plan_writing_service.aspx)
| [Business Plan
Service](http://www.bizplancorner.com/articles/24/business-plan-service.aspx)**

[Category:OWASP Application Security Assessment Standards
Project](Category:OWASP_Application_Security_Assessment_Standards_Project "wikilink")
[Category: Control](Category:_Control "wikilink")