Welcome to the
OWASP [Calgary](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Calgary) chapter
homepage. We are located in the province
of [Alberta](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Alberta),
[Canada](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Canada), about 80 km (50 mi) east
of the front ranges of the [Canadian
Rockies](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Canadian_Rockies).

Our mission is to enrich Calgary's application security community. We
hope you can join us in accomplishing that.

![Calgary_downtown_w_mountains.gif](Calgary_downtown_w_mountains.gif
"Calgary_downtown_w_mountains.gif")

# Events

Our monthly sessions take place on the 3rd Tuesday of each month (will
be posted separately if any exceptions).

OWASP Calgary Chapter meetings are posted on [our Meetup
page](https://www.meetup.com/OWASP-Calgary-Chapter); join us there to
see future and past events, and to subscribe to calendar\!

"Like" and follow us on [Facebook
page](https://www.facebook.com/OWASPCalgary)

# Contact

The OWASP Calgary chapter leaders are:

  - [Alex P](mailto:alex.privalov@owasp.org)

Join us on [Meetup page](https://www.meetup.com/OWASP-Calgary-Chapter)

"Like" and follow us on [Facebook
page](https://www.facebook.com/OWASPCalgary) __NOTOC__
<headertabs />

# Next Event

OWASP Calgary Chapter first meeting ever\! **November 20, 2019 @ 6pm**

Talks and speakers:

\- "You May Also Like...Privacy" by Ryan Henry

# Speakers

We welcome speakers of all level\! You don't have to be a pro to talk at
one of our events, but we do ask that you talk be related to an
application security domain and you provide value to attendees. To be a
speaker, simply review the [speaker
agreement](Speaker_Agreement "wikilink") and then contact the our
chapter lead with details of what OWASP project, independent research or
related application security topic you would like to present on.

# Membership

OWASP Foundation ([Overview
Slides](https://docs.google.com/a/owasp.org/presentation/d/10wi1EWFCPZwCpkB6qZaBNN8mR2XfQs8sLxcj9SCsP6c/edit?usp=sharing))
is a professional association of [global members](Membership "wikilink")
and is open to anyone interested in learning more about software
security. Local chapters are run independently and guided by the
[Chapter_Leader_Handbook](Chapter_Leader_Handbook "wikilink").

Consider the value of [Individual, Corporate, or Academic Supporter
membership](Membership "wikilink"). Ready to become a member?
![Join_Now_BlueIcon.JPG](Join_Now_BlueIcon.JPG
"Join_Now_BlueIcon.JPG")

# Sponsors

As a [501(c)(3)](About_OWASP "wikilink") non-profit professional
association your support and sponsorship of any meeting venue and/or
refreshments is tax-deductible. Financial contributions should only be
made online using the authorized online chapter donation button.

![Btn_donate_SM.gif](Btn_donate_SM.gif "Btn_donate_SM.gif") to this
chapter or become a local chapter supporter.

# Our 2019 Sponsors

We would like to thank the following companies for providing us with
space, pizza and pop, and helping us with our mission to enrich
Calgary's application security community.

[Category:Calgary](Category:Calgary "wikilink")
[Category:Alberta](Category:Alberta "wikilink")
[Category:Canada](Category:Canada "wikilink") [Category:OWASP
Chapter](Category:OWASP_Chapter "wikilink")