# Working for the OWASP Foundation

We are vibrant community of developers, technologists, evangelists, and
gurus on application security. Founded nearly ten years ago the OWASP
Foundation staff complements and supports our over 43,000 community
members to make the web secure. We are a 100% remote team with
competitive pay and a great deal of freedom to make a difference. The
Foundation offers unlimited vacation and sick leave, a personal
technology and home office budget, and health/dental/life insurance for
full-time exempt staff. Our current searches are listed below.

Transparency is a core value of our community, and you will be expected
to have a collaborative and open style of working with others. Your
project plans and work product will be publicly available to our
community. Only candidates with strong personal initiative and technical
aptitude will find success in this high pressure and exciting role.
Great written and online skills needed to successfully collaborate with
our team and global membership.

The Open Web Application Security Project (OWASP) is a global non-profit
organization focused on improving the security of software. Our mission
is to make software security visible, so that individuals and
organizations are able to make informed decisions. Operating as a
community of like-minded professionals, OWASP hosts community
activities, issues software tools, and knowledge-based documentation on
application security.

Principals only, applications are only considered when submitted to the
links below.

## Events Director

Our Events Director will lead and grow our global events initiatives.
Each year, our growing conference agenda includes global, regional, and
local events that offer training, learning, sharing, exposition, and
member meetings.

Reporting to the Executive Director, this role is directly responsible
for the success of our global events, and will collaborate with leaders,
members, and partners to grow and evolve our regional events. Successful
candidates will have organized and managed education-rich international
conferences for technical audiences. Salary commensurate with experience
with published range of $75,000 - $100,000 per year. **[Apply
Now](https://owasp.wufoo.com/forms/employment-application/def/field18=Events%20Director)**

## Marketing Manager

The Marketing Manager will lead and grow global awareness for our
mission, work product, and organization. Each year millions of visitors
find useful tools and technical guidance on our website and we aim to
convert that interest into active members of our community.

Reporting to the Executive Director, this role is directly responsible
for the growth and affinity of the OWASP brand as measured by Awareness,
well attended conferences, along with web traffic and conversions.
Successful candidates will have defined and managed marketing plans and
tactics for international trade groups in the technology sector. Salary
commensurate with experience with published range of $40,000 - $60,000
per year. **[Apply
Now](https://owasp.wufoo.com/forms/employment-application/def/field18=Marketing%20Manager)**

## Technical Manager

The Technical Manager will manage and perform intermediate-level
sysAdmin, IT, security, and integration coding projects for the
Foundation. Several of our projects will offer unique opportunities for
advanced integration techniques and visibility into our global InfoSec
and developer community.

Reporting to the Director of Products & Technology, this role is
responsible for ensuring the Foundation’s managed and hosted
infrastructure has high reliability while also building integrations to
connect our disparate systems. Experience with Github, SalesForce,
G-Suite APIs, and web commerce is required for success in this new role.
Salary commensurate with experience with published range of $50,000 -
$75,000 per year. **[Apply
Now](https://owasp.wufoo.com/forms/employment-application/def/field18=Technology%20Manager)**

## Operations Manager

Our Operations Manager will professionally manage and perform our daily
operations including but not limited to membership, chapters, projects,
human resources, along with various time-sensitive projects. Reporting
to the Executive Director, this role is directly responsible for the
smooth operations of the Foundation while helping to increase community
goodwill and connectivity to our cause. Successful candidates will have
previously managed the operations of a small business while having a
proactive attitude towards finding ways to further increase a team’s
efficiency. Salary commensurate with experience with published range of
$40,000 - $60,000 per year. **[Apply
Now](https://owasp.wufoo.com/forms/employment-application/def/field18=Operations%20Manager)**