## Stable Release Review of the OWASP Content Validation using Java Annotations Project - SHIP Validator 0.3 Release

#### Project Leader for this Release

***[Federico Mancini](mailto:federico.mancini@uib.no), [Dag
Hovland](:User:Dag_Hovland "wikilink"), [Khalid Azim
Mughal](mailto:Khalid.Mughal@uib.no)'s Pre-Assessment Checklist:***

#### First Reviewer

***[Dinis Cruz](:user:Dinis.cruz "wikilink")'s Review:***
<small>Ideally, reviewers should be an existing OWASP project leader or
chapter leader.</small>

{{ Assessment Questions - Tools

| 1. Is an installer for the tool available and easy to use? How close
does it reach the goal of a fully automated installer? = (answer \#1)
Delete this text and place your answer here. The same for the questions
below.

| 2. Is the end user documentation complete, relevant and presented on
the OWASP wiki page? = (answer \#2)

|3. Does the tool have an “About box” or similar help item which allows
the end user to get an overview of the state of this tool? Is this
information readily available and easy to find? = (answer \#3)

| 4. Does the documentation on building the source provide the necessary
information and detail to allow someone to build the tool? Is there
sufficient detail and information for the target user? Is there any
domain specific knowledge that is assumed and not provided? = (answer
\#4)

| 5. Is the tool's documentation available with the source code and
would it readily discoverable by a new user of the tool? = (answer \#5)

| 6. Is there anything missing that is critical enough to keep the
release at a alpha quality? = (answer \#6)

| 7. Does the tool substantially address the application security issues
it was created to solve? = (answer \#7)

| 8. Is the tool reasonably easy to use? = (answer \#8)

| 9. Does the documentation meet the needs of the tool users and is
easily found? = (answer \#9)

| 10. Do the build scripts work as expected? Can you build the tool? The
goal is a “One-click” build. = (answer \#10)

| 11. Is the bug tracking system usable? Is it hosted at the same place
as the source code? (e.g. Google Code, Sourceforge) = (answer \#11)

| 12. Have you noted any limitations of the tool that are not already
documented by the project lead. = (answer \#12)

| 13. Would you consider using this tool in your day to day work
assuming your professional work includes a reason to use this tool? Why
or why not? = (answer \#13)

| 14. What, if anything, is missing which would make this a more useful
tool? Is what is missing critical enough to keep the release at a beta
quality? = (answer \#14)

}}

#### Second Reviewer

***[Matt Tesauro](User:Mtesauro "wikilink")'s Review:***
<small>It is recommended that an OWASP board member or Global Projects
Committee member be the second reviewer on Quality releases. The board
has the initial option to review the project, followed by the Global
Projects Committee.</small>

{{ Assessment Questions - Tools

| 1. Is an installer for the tool available and easy to use? How close
does it reach the goal of a fully automated installer? = (answer \#1)
Delete this text and place your answer here. The same for the questions
below.

| 2. Is the end user documentation complete, relevant and presented on
the OWASP wiki page? = (answer \#2)

|3. Does the tool have an “About box” or similar help item which allows
the end user to get an overview of the state of this tool? Is this
information readily available and easy to find? = (answer \#3)

| 4. Does the documentation on building the source provide the necessary
information and detail to allow someone to build the tool? Is there
sufficient detail and information for the target user? Is there any
domain specific knowledge that is assumed and not provided? = (answer
\#4)

| 5. Is the tool's documentation available with the source code and
would it readily discoverable by a new user of the tool? = (answer \#5)

| 6. Is there anything missing that is critical enough to keep the
release at a alpha quality? = (answer \#6)

| 7. Does the tool substantially address the application security issues
it was created to solve? = (answer \#7)

| 8. Is the tool reasonably easy to use? = (answer \#8)

| 9. Does the documentation meet the needs of the tool users and is
easily found? = (answer \#9)

| 10. Do the build scripts work as expected? Can you build the tool? The
goal is a “One-click” build. = (answer \#10)

| 11. Is the bug tracking system usable? Is it hosted at the same place
as the source code? (e.g. Google Code, Sourceforge) = (answer \#11)

| 12. Have you noted any limitations of the tool that are not already
documented by the project lead. = (answer \#12)

| 13. Would you consider using this tool in your day to day work
assuming your professional work includes a reason to use this tool? Why
or why not? = (answer \#13)

| 14. What, if anything, is missing which would make this a more useful
tool? Is what is missing critical enough to keep the release at a beta
quality? = (answer \#14)

}}

__NOTOC__ <headertabs />