`This is a DRAFT page still under review by the `[`Global``
 ``Projects``   ``Committee`](Global_Projects_Committee "wikilink")

<table>
<thead>
<tr class="header">
<th><p>width="400" align="left"</p></th>
<th></th>
<th><p>width="500" align="center"</p></th>
<th></th>
</tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>align="center"</p></td>
<td><p>__TOC__</p></td>
<td><p>align="left"</p></td>
<td><p><strong>Current</strong></p>
<ul>
<li><strong><a href="OWASP_Season_of_Code_2009" title="wikilink">OWASP Season of Code 2009</a> (to be launched soon)</strong></li>
</ul>
<p>Previous</p>
<ul>
<li><a href="OWASP_Summer_of_Code_2008" title="wikilink">OWASP Summer of Code 2008</a> (closed)</li>
</ul></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

## What is a Season of Code?

The OWASP Season of Code program is the main way that OWASP funds
development of [strategic projects](:Category:OWASP_Project "wikilink").
The programs allows participants to submit proposals for project
development and then receive grant money upon reaching their milestones.
To date, OWASP has provided participants with over $200,000 USD in
grants under the Season of Code program.

  - [Information on the current Season of
    Code](OWASP_Season_of_Code_current "wikilink")
  - [Information on previous Seasons of
    Code](#Previous_Seasons_of_Code "wikilink")

## How does it work?

Each year, OWASP launches a Season of Code iteration with an associated
request for proposals, mentors, and sponsors. Any person and any
organization can get involved. You can either participate by writing a
proposal for a grant, volunteer to mentor a selected project, or
financially sponsor a project of your choice. [OWASP
Project](:Category:OWASP_Project "wikilink") contributors and leaders
are encouraged to submit proposals or volunteer as mentors and submit
ideas for proposals.

The typical timeline for a Season of Code involves:

  - Proposal submission (\~1 month)
  - Project selection and notification (\~1 month)
  - Project delivery - 1st half - Midterm evaluation (\~2 months)
  - Project delivery - 2nd half - Final evaluation (\~2 months)

Of course, refer to the Schedule posted on the [current Season of Code
homepage](OWASP_Season_of_Code_current#Schedule "wikilink") for exact
dates and milestones.

### Participation

Anyone can write a proposal for a Season of Code grant. All that is
required is submission of a proposal according to the guidelines on the
[current Season of Code
homepage](OWASP_Season_of_Code_current#Schedule "wikilink"). Good
proposals are typically structured in two phases with concrete
deliverables for each half of delivery. Ideal candidates should:

  - Show the potential to accomplish the stated objectives/deliveries
  - Have the commitment to dedicate the time required to complete
    projects in the appropriate period

After the submission deadline, proposals will be evaluated by the
selection board and Participants will be notified. Unfortunately not all
proposals can be funded, so please refer to the [budget for the current
Season of Code](OWASP_Season_of_Code_current#Budget "wikilink").
Selected projects will be assigned a Mentor to help guide and review the
work as the project is delivered.

Participants will deliver the project's 1st half and receive an
evaluation from the project mentor. As long as everything is on track,
half the grant payment is then paid and the Participant goes to work on
the 2nd half. After a final evaluation, the remaining half of the grant
payment is made.

For specific instructions, refer to the [participant instructions on the
current Season of Code
homepage](OWASP_Season_of_Code_current#Participants "wikilink").

### Mentorship

Anyone can volunteer to be a project Mentor. In the planning phases for
a Season of Code iteration, Mentors provide ideas for projects which
Participants can extend into full proposal submissions. Also,
individuals can review proposal submissions and volunteer to mentor a
specific project of interest. Ideal candidates should:

  - Demonstrate expertise or domain-specific knowledge for the given
    project
  - Be an OWASP Project contributor or leader (not required)

Once assigned to a project, a Mentor helps advise and guide throughout
project delivery to ensure the project is progressing according to
expectations laid forth in the proposal. After the 1st half of delivery,
the Mentor will evaluate the project and sign-off. Likewise, after the
2nd half the Mentor will provide a Final evaluation.

For specific instructions, refer to the [mentor instructions on the
current Season of Code
homepage](OWASP_Season_of_Code_current#Mentors "wikilink").

### Sponsorship

Anyone or any organization can be a Season of Code sponsor by donating
money. The main benefit of being a Season of Code sponsor is that you
can direct the funds toward sponsoring projects of your choice. Though
not required, this can include:

  - Adding your own ideas for proposals to the existing Season of Code
    list
  - Providing a Mentor of your choice for the project
  - Having your organization's name and logo added as a Sponsor to the
    project for 1 year

For specific instructions, refer to the [sponsor instructions on the
current Season of Code
homepage](OWASP_Season_of_Code_current#Sponsors "wikilink").

## How are proposals selected?

Each Season of Code iteration has an assigned selection Jury that
evaluates proposals and selects projects to fund. Refer to the [current
Season of Code
homepage](OWASP_Season_of_Code_current#Selection_Jury "wikilink") for
more specific information on Jury members.

There are two methods to select SoC projects:

  - By direct majority vote by the Jury;
  - By selection rating from using the following criteria. Each proposal
    will receive a 1-5 rating from each Jury member for each of the
    criteria below.
      - The final result will be the total value.
          - On the Project:
              - Completion - Will the project be completed in the time
                frame?
              - Innovation - Does the project break new ground or solve
                a hard problem?
              - Member Value - How big is the potential added value to
                OWASP Members?
              - Brand Value - How big is the potential added value to
                the OWASP Brand?
          - On the Candidate:
              - Past Work - Value of past contributions to OWASP
                Projects
              - Deliverability - Proven capability to deliver on similar
                scale
              - Quality of Proposal - Overall quality of the proposal
                submission

## How do I get paid?

Money is paid to Participants and Mentors in two equal chunks,
respectively based upon successful midterm and final evaluations.
Overall, the split between Participants and Mentors is around 80/20, but
for specifics, see the [budget for the current Season of
Code](OWASP_Season_of_Code_current#Budget "wikilink").

## Previous Seasons of Code

This program was launched in 2006 as the [OWASP Autumn Of Code
2006](OWASP_Autumn_Of_Code_2006 "wikilink"). Links to each Season of
Code home page are available below.