<table>
<thead>
<tr class="header">
<th><p>width="700" align="center"</p></th>
<th><p><br />
</p></th>
<th><p>width="500" align="center"</p></th>
<th><p><br />
</p></th>
</tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>align="right"</p></td>
<td><figure>
<img src="OWASP_Inactive_Banner.jpg" title="OWASP_Inactive_Banner.jpg" alt="OWASP_Inactive_Banner.jpg" width="800" /><figcaption>OWASP_Inactive_Banner.jpg</figcaption>
</figure></td>
<td><p>align="right"</p></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

#### Main

## Overview

Web applications face any number of threats; one of them is cross-site
scripting and related injection attacks. 90% of all web applications
contain cross-site scripting vulnerabilities because they are easy to
introduce, and the proper tools are not always available to prevent
them. The Reform library provides a solid set of functions for encoding
output for the most common context targets in web applications (e.g.
HTML, XML, JavaScript, etc). The library also takes a conservative view
of what are allowable characters based on historical vulnerabilities,
and current injection techniques.

## Goals

  - Provide tools needed by developers to mitigate canonicalization
    issues in web technologies.
  - Provide a solution that will not need to be patched (no security
    patches since release in 2004, private implementations in use since
    2002).

## Download

[Reform-0.12.zip](http://reform.googlecode.com/files/Reform-0.12.zip)
(stable)

The latest code is now being maintained in a [Google Code repository at
<http://code.google.com/p/reform/>](http://code.google.com/p/reform/)

## Features

  - Unicode support
  - Context specific functions (HTML, XML, JavaScript, etc)
  - Many supported languages
      - Java
      - .NET v1/v2
      - PHP
      - Python
      - Perl
      - JavaScript
      - ASP
  - Support for AJAX
  - Conservative approach
  - Solves all current XSS techniques
  - Full xUnit style test cases

## Future Development

  - Ruby support
  - Java framework support
  - LDAP encoding functions
  - Add documentation on resolving XPath issues

## News

**`OWASP``   ``Encoding``   ``Project``   ``Adopts``   ``Reform``
 ``-``   ``10:01,``   ``8``   ``November``   ``2006``   ``(EST)`**

OWASP is adopting the Reform Encoding Library as an OWASP project. We
are currently in the process of moving over the source, downloads, and
documentation.

**`OWASP``   ``Encoding``   ``Project``   ``Created!``   ``-``
 ``10:01,``   ``8``   ``November``   ``2006``   ``(EST)`**

The Open Web Application Security Project is proud to announce the OWASP
Encoding Project\!

## Feedback and Participation:

We hope you find the OWASP Encoding Project useful. Please contribute to
the Project by volunteering for one of the tasks, sending your comments,
questions, and suggestions to owasp@owasp.org. To join the OWASP
Encoding Project mailing list or view the archives, please visit the
[subscription
page.](http://lists.owasp.org/mailman/listinfo/owasp-encoding)

## Project Contributors

[Michael Eddington](http://phed.org)

## Project Sponsor

[Leviathan Security Group, Inc.](http://leviathansecurity.com)

#### Project Details

__NOTOC__ <headertabs />

[Encoding Project](Category:OWASP_Project "wikilink") [Category:OWASP
Download](Category:OWASP_Download "wikilink") [Category:OWASP
Tool](Category:OWASP_Tool "wikilink")