## DEPRECATED

There has not been substantial updates to this page since 2008.

The OWASP Communications Committee is working on a plan to address this
issue, but this page does not represent the current reality within
OWASP.

## Overview

Governments, companies, and educational institutions are doomed to deal
with endless streams of software vulnerabilities unless programmers
learn to write much more secure code. Part of the charter of OWASP is to
assist in making application security visible which requires at its
core, dedicated individuals who are savage in the pursuit of excellence.

Several initiatives are underway to improve secure software development
skills and knowledge. Oracle, Microsoft, and a few other software
companies are conducting short courses for their developers. Consulting
firms such as Accenture and Cognizant are investing heavily in teaching
secure coding practices to not just security professionals, but all
their staff at large. Dozens of universities in the United States,
Canada, China, Trinidad and Brazil are creating elective courses on
secure software development. Yet, even if all of those initiatives are
successful, they are unlikely to affect even two percent of the existing
millions of developers already in the work force or those who will be
entering the work force over the next five years.

The need for certification in this space is immense. The lack of
accountability or at least a way to tell qualified security
professionals from those that aren't is difficult. We understand that
for traditional software development, applications better compile or
they don't go live, developers don't get their bonus and some may even
see their employment terminated. In security, there is generally no bar
to clear.

Enterprises are under duress in order to translate the requirements of
PCI, SoX, HIPAA and other guidance to their daily practice, yet find
that those charged sometimes aren't fit for duty. In order to close the
gap, they invest significant funding in education and certification. At
the highest levels, this is a noble goal; however there is almost always
a coupling of certification to courseware where candidates only learn
enough to pass a test. For enterprises that don't invest in their
employees but do believe in hiring talent on demand, they seek the
ability to have a single certification that their recruiting staff can
use to filter the great from the masses and the OWASP People
Certification Project is the answer to all these concerns and more...

## Project Goals

`The project has six goals:`

  - Allow employers to rate their developers and architects on security
    skills so they can be confident that every project has at least one
    "security master" and all of their developers and architects
    understand the common errors and how to avoid them.
  - Provide a means for buyers of software and systems vendors to
    measure the secure programming skills of the people who work for the
    supplier.
  - Allow developers and architects to identify their gaps in secure
    programming knowledge in the language they use and target education
    to fill those gaps.
  - Allow employers to evaluate job candidates and potential consultants
    on their secure design & development skills and knowledge.
  - Provide incentive for universities to include secure software design
    & development in required computer science, engineering, and
    programming courses.
  - Provide reporting to allow individuals and organizations to compare
    their skills against others in their industry, with similar
    education or experience or in similar regions around the world.

## Joining the Project

If you are interested in volunteering for the project, or have a
comment, question, or suggestion, please join the Certification Project
[mailing list](http://lists.owasp.org/mailman/listinfo/OWASP-cert), or
contact [James McGovern](User:jm04469 "wikilink").

## Full Proposal Details

[Revised Proposal:
June 2008](https://www.owasp.org/images/6/67/OWASP_People_Certification_Project_-_June_2008_-_Draft.pdf)

[Draft Proposal:
April 2008](https://www.owasp.org/images/d/de/People_Certification_Project_-_April_2008_-_Draft.pdf)

## Requirements

[Certification
Requirements](http://www.owasp.org/index.php/Category:OWASP_Certification_Requirements)

[Categorie:FIXME/delete‏‎](Categorie:FIXME/delete‏‎ "wikilink")

[Certification Project](Category:OWASP_Project "wikilink")