[Click here to return to OWASP Projects
page.](:Category:OWASP_Project "wikilink")
[Click here to see (& edit, if wanted) the
template.](:Project_Information:template_Live_CD_2007_Project "wikilink")
**Note: This project has been deprecated. The current version of this
project is the [OWASP Live CD
Project](:Category:OWASP_Live_CD_Project "wikilink")**

## Overview

The OWASP Live CD (LabRat) is a bootable CD akin to knoppix but
dedicated to Application Security. It shall serve as a vehicle and
distrubition medium for OWASP tools and guides.

## BETA Release of OWASP LiveCD Version 2.1 ready for testing

OWASP LiveCD is ready to download. This distro is Beta Version 2.1 named
"LabRat" and is part of the OWASP SpoC 007 sponsorship. The distro is
focused on providing all of OWASP tools and documents on a bootable CD.
The goal is to have a portable distro that can be used by professional
penetration testers,security admins, Students, or anyone interested in
computer security to perform work,training, or research. All you have to
do is burn the .ISO to DVD or start under Vmware/Virtual PC and you will
have a full Linux desktop environment loaded with OWASP tools and
documents.Another instant advantage is that the CD can be distributed
within testing teams and new hires to ensure everyone has the same tools
without spending a week setting up a laptop. Same scenario applies for
students learning computer security.

#### Details

V2 of the OWASP liveCD is focused on OWASP tools and Documentation. The
menu structure had been built around the three (3) status levels of
OWASP projects (Releases, Alpha, and Beta). Each area has been further
seperated into Doc and Tools to make updates easier. Wiki pages are now
linked for every tool and OWASP document.

#### Issues

At this point (Nov, 9 2007) the OWASP tools and documents are on the CD
but they are not all configured at this point.

The CD doesn't have a lot of other pen-test tools in this version.

The Boot graphics still need to be changed.

Sounds doesn't work on some systems.

#### What's Next?

The first step will be to ensure that all the OWASP tools and documents
are present on the CD and working. Once that has been completed- then we
will focus on adding traditional pen-test tools. However, the focus of
this CD is OWASP resources.

#### BETA TESTERS

We encourage everyone to download the .ISO and give us feedback on what
we can do to make it better. Also, what tools or docs would you like to
have on the CD? The URL to the mailing list is
owasp-livecd@lists.owasp.org . I can also be contacted directly -
livecd@packetfocus.com

#### Download

Version 2.1 will be uploaded for testing by Nov 15th 2007. It's currenly
working but being tested.

The distro can be downloaded from the PacketFocus website
(http://www.packetfocus.com/hackos/AOC_Labrat-ALPHA-0010.iso) ((800mb))
After you download it just burn it to a DVD or use something like Vmware
server to try it out. Vmware is a free download now (www.vmware.com)

[Running An ISO In
VMware](http://securitydistro.com/video-tutorials/53/Running-an-ISO-on-VMware.php)

#### Screenshots

[LabRat 0.1
Screenshots](http://securitydistro.com/gallery/74/OWASP-LabRat-v01.php)

Version 2.1 was sponsored by SpoC 007 Version .008 and .010 were
sponsored by OWASP Autumn of Code 2006.

## Download

The BETA version v.10 is now available to download. It can be found on
the PacketFocus website
<http://www.packetfocus.com/hackos/AOC_Labrat-ALPHA-0010.iso> The
current version is about 800mb and contains 100's of linux applications.
Most of these unneeded software will be removed from the next release to
minimize .iso size.

## Features

LabRat v.2.1 \*Current Beta Download

LiveCD Based on Morphix (www.morphix.org) Runs completely in Memory

Tools: WebGoat v5 WebScarab Paros JBroFuZZ Cal9000 Nmap TcpDump
WireShark

Docs: OWASP Guide OWASP Testing Guide

## Future Development

## News

**OWASP Live CD BETA ready for Download\! RC1 - 12:54, 01 Feb 2007
(GMT)**

The RC1 version of the CD is now available for testing. The download can
be found here:
<http://www.packetfocus.com/hackos/AOC_Labrat-ALPHA-0010.iso> The latest
version is v0.10 and is just around 800mb. This version has quite a few
OWASP tools and documentation included. Have a look and email your ideas
to livecd@packetfocus.com. We also encourage you to join the OWASP
LiveCD mailing list to discuss requests for the next version.

## Feedback and Participation:

We hope you find the OWASP Live CD Project useful. Please contribute to
the Project by volunteering for one of the Tasks, sending your comments,
questions, and suggestions to owasp@owasp.org. To join the OWASP Live CD
Project mailing list or view the archives, please visit the
[subscription
page.](http://lists.owasp.org/mailman/listinfo/owasp-livecd)

**Graphics for Labrat ( Live Linux Distro )**
If anyone would like to help out with the graphics for the Live Linux
Distro please contact OWASP at packetfocus.com This would be a great
project for University or even High School students to participate in
the security community. The Distro was named "labrat" because it should
contain all the tools necessary to perform labratory grade ethical
hacking / auditing. And all of the other cool themes have been taken but
other Distro's....

## Project Contributors

## Project Sponsor

Live CD sponsors:
[<https://www.owasp.org/images/2/2a/LabRat_CD_Cover_logo_small.PNG>](http://www.packetfocus.com)
[<https://www.owasp.org/images/4/4b/Rits_logo_small.GIF>](http://www.ritsgroup.com)

[Live CD 2007 Project](Category:OWASP_Project "wikilink")
[Category:OWASP Tool](Category:OWASP_Tool "wikilink") [Category:OWASP
Download](Category:OWASP_Download "wikilink")