<table>
<thead>
<tr class="header">
<th><p>width="700" align="center"</p></th>
<th><p><br />
</p></th>
<th><p>width="500" align="center"</p></th>
<th><p><br />
</p></th>
</tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>align="right"</p></td>
<td><figure>
<img src="OWASP_Inactive_Banner.jpg" title="OWASP_Inactive_Banner.jpg" alt="OWASP_Inactive_Banner.jpg" width="800" /><figcaption>OWASP_Inactive_Banner.jpg</figcaption>
</figure></td>
<td><p>align="right"</p></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

#### Main

## Vision

Our vision is to provide access to application security tools, resources
and eductional material to everyone interested to learn and work in
application security. We aim to achieve this by creating a repository of
all the available resoruces at one place.

## Overview

New open source and commercial web application security tools are
released almost every day. These tools are used either to detect
vulnerabilities within web applications or to protect web applications
from exploitation of potential vulnerabilties that may be present in
these applications. With so many tools at hand, it may sometimes be
difficult to make a decision about the selection of a tool that best
meets your requirements.

The OWASP Tools Project has been created to provide unbiased, practical
information and guidance about application security tools that are used
to detect vulnerabilities or to protect against vulnerabilities. The
goal of this project is to identify any available tools, categorise them
and rate them according to a predefind criteria to assess their
efficiency and performance.

## Project Roadmap

  - Defining categories for tools
  - Identification of tools within these categories
  - Define rating criteria and the test procedure for identified tools
  - Testing the tools against test applications to see how effectively
    the tool meets the rating criteria
  - Provide rating to the tools based on their efficiency and
    performance

## Feedback and Participation

We hope you find the OWASP Tools Project useful. Please contribute back
to the project by sending your comments, questions, and suggestions to
the mailing list [here](mailto:owasp-tools-project@lists.owasp.org).

#### Project Identification

__NOTOC__ <headertabs />

[Tools Project](Category:OWASP_Project "wikilink") [Category:OWASP
Document](Category:OWASP_Document "wikilink") [Category:OWASP Beta
Quality Document](Category:OWASP_Beta_Quality_Document "wikilink")