<table>
<thead>
<tr class="header">
<th><p>width="700" align="center"</p></th>
<th><p><br />
</p></th>
<th><p>width="500" align="center"</p></th>
<th><p><br />
</p></th>
</tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>align="right"</p></td>
<td><figure>
<img src="OWASP_Inactive_Banner.jpg" title="OWASP_Inactive_Banner.jpg" alt="OWASP_Inactive_Banner.jpg" width="800" /><figcaption>OWASP_Inactive_Banner.jpg</figcaption>
</figure></td>
<td><p>align="right"</p></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

#### Main

![IWAP1.png](IWAP1.png "IWAP1.png") ![IWAP2.png](IWAP2.png "IWAP2.png")
![IWAP3.png](IWAP3.png "IWAP3.png") ![IWAP4.png](IWAP4.png "IWAP4.png")
InsecureWebApp is a web application that includes common web application
vulnerabilities. It is a target for automated and manual penetration
testing, source code analysis, vulnerability assessments and threat
modeling.

InsecureWebApp is primarily a teaching aid to challenge and improve
secure design and coding skills. Architects and developers need to learn
how to identify vulnerabilities in a real web application. The goals of
this tool are threefold: 1) demonstrate how dangerous application
vulnerabilities can be, 2) close the gap between the theory of web
application security and the actual code that we design and build, 3)
learn how these vulnerabilities can be fixed.

InsecureWebApp assumes that you already know some theory about web
application vulnerabilities in particular parameter tampering, broken
authentication, SQL injection and HTML injection. To learn more, please
see owasp.org's [Guide
Project](:Category:OWASP_Guide_Project "wikilink") and use the [OWASP
WebGoat Project](:Category:OWASP_WebGoat_Project "wikilink") training
environment.

## Screenshots

Some screenshots are available of example vulnerabilties including HTML
and SQL injection.

## Challenge

Download it and see if you're up to the challenges listed in the
instructions. Spotting a vulnerability as part of a code review is a key
skill but it's not easy - even when the code is simple and small...

## History

The InsecureWebApp project was conceived in 2004 by Lawrence Angrave. It
was licensed to the community as an open source project in April 2005.
InsecureWebApp is sponsored by IsthmusGroup, Madison Wisconsin and is an
OWASP project.

## Download

InsecureWebApp is an open source project available for
[download](http://sourceforge.net/project/showfiles.php?group_id=135437)
here. It as available as Eclipse 3 project with source, a zip of
deployable war file that can be dropped into Tomcat, or as a Tomcat
server with the war file already included. Note, only the Eclipse
version includes the project source code.

#### Project Identification

__NOTOC__ <headertabs />

[Insecure Web App Project](Category:OWASP_Project "wikilink")
[Category:OWASP Tool](Category:OWASP_Tool "wikilink") [Category:OWASP
Download](Category:OWASP_Download "wikilink")