#### Main

## Introduction

The goal of the OWASP AJAX Security project is to identify and document
security issues encountered by AJAX applications and document ways to
secure these applications. The OWASP AJAX Security project is being lead
by Anurag Agarwal.

## Project Roadmap

1\. Gather existing presentations and pull ideas into OWASP
2\. Review AJAX frameworks and identify security issues handled by these
frameworks
3\. Review AJAX related literature (books, articles, ...)
4\. Document ways to secure AJAX applications

## Volunteers Needed

We are actively seeking contributors to add new sections . If you are
interested in volunteering for the project, or have a comment, question,
or suggestion, please drop me a line
[mailto:abraham_kang\[at\]yahoo.com](mailto:abraham_kang%5Bat%5Dyahoo.com)
Also if you have an idea for new sub-projects then email us.

## Current Project Status

We are currently working on reviewing Ajax frameworks/tools. The intent
of the review is to provide an overview of the framework and the
security issues handled by the framework.

The framework we are currently reviewing is the **Google Web
Toolkit**[1](https://www.owasp.org/index.php/Google_Web_Toolkit). If you
have experience using GWT and/or are interested in participating in this
review please contact us either though the mailing list or emailing
anurag.agarwal\[at\]yahoo.com

## Updates

Jeff Williams 2/18/2008 article "Reduce your exposure to AJAX threats"
can be viewed
here[2](http://www.regdeveloper.co.uk/2008/02/18/simple_ajax_security/print.html)

The SPI Dynamics presentation from BlackHat 2007 can be viewed here
[](https://www.blackhat.com/presentations/bh-usa-07/Sullivan_and_Hoffman/Whitepaper/bh-usa-07-sullivan_and_hoffman-WP.pdf)

#### Project Identification

__NOTOC__ <headertabs />

## Mailing List

[Click here](http://lists.owasp.org/mailman/listinfo/owasp-ajax) to
subscribe to the OWASP Ajax Security Project mailing list.

[AJAX Security Project](Category:OWASP_Project "wikilink")
[Category:OWASP Tool](Category:OWASP_Tool "wikilink") [Category:OWASP
Alpha Quality Tool](Category:OWASP_Alpha_Quality_Tool "wikilink")
[Category:Inactive Projects](Category:Inactive_Projects "wikilink")