## Welcome to the OWASP Papers Program

In an effort to promote more in-depth work in application security, the
OWASP Papers program is now accepting paper submissions. Papers
submitted to the OWASP Papers program will be reviewed by a team of
senior application security experts. These reviewers will provide
constructive feedback on submissions in the hopes of achieving a
publishable quality paper. Papers that are approved by the review team
will be published on the OWASP website and will be candidates for
presentation at the next OWASP AppSec conference.

## A note on plagiarism

Plagiarism is representing another person's work as one's own. According
to [Diana Hacker](http://www.dianahacker.com/), "Three acts are
plagiarism: (1) failing to cite quotations and borrowed ideas, (2)
failing to enclose borrowed language in quotation marks and (3) failing
to put summaries and paraphrases in your own words." Plagiarism is
inconsistent with OWASP's goals and will result in permanent removal of
your material from our site.

To check content there are many ways - if you suspect it try
[Articlechecker.com](http://www.articlechecker.com)

Please report suspected plagiarism to <owasp@owasp.org> with as many
details as possible and we will take action

## Submitting a paper

To submit a paper, please use the following [template for Microsoft Word
/ Open Office](Media:Paper_template.doc "wikilink") documents. All
submissions should be sent to <owasp@owasp.org>. By submitting a paper,
you agree to having OWASP publish the paper on the OWASP website and
that you will not distribute the paper via other channels. Your paper
will be made available under the Creative Commons Share-Alike
Attribution license.

## Papers

\--

  - [Title](http://link) (Author)
    Brief description

\--\>

  - [Software Development and Information
    Security](https://www.owasp.org/index.php/Image:Software_Development_And_Information_Security-Tom_Neaves.pdf)
    (Tom Neaves)
    An analysis, investigation and experiment into what happens when
    security is treated as an add-on during development.

<!-- end list -->

  - [Effective Software Security Management PDF
    Version](https://www.owasp.org/images/2/28/Effective_Software_Security_Management.pdf)
    (Dharmesh Mehta)
    Discusses practical, flexible and understandable approach to
    aligning application security in SDLC.

<!-- end list -->

  - [Jeopardy in Web 2.0 - The Next Generation Web PDF
    Version](http://www.owasp.org/images/b/b6/Jeopardy_in_Web_2.0_-_The_Next_Generation_Web_Applications.pdf)
    (Dharmesh Mehta)
    Discusses attacks against Web 2.0 - The Next Generation Web

<!-- end list -->

  - [Jeopardy in Web 2.0 - The Next Generation Web HTML
    Version](http://www.owasp.org/index.php/OWASP_Papers/Jeopardy_in_Web_2_0)
    (Dharmesh Mehta)
    Discusses attacks against Web 2.0 - The Next Generation Web

<!-- end list -->

  - [Document Security in Web
    Applications](http://www.owasp.org/images/1/16/Document_Security_in_Web_Applications.doc)
    (Andres Desa)
    Discusses issues with protecting data in document form, such as
    Word, Excel, and PDF.