<table>
<thead>
<tr class="header">
<th><p>width="700" align="center"</p></th>
<th><p><br />
</p></th>
<th><p>width="500" align="center"</p></th>
<th><p><br />
</p></th>
</tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>align="right"</p></td>
<td><figure>
<img src="OWASP_Inactive_Banner.jpg" title="OWASP_Inactive_Banner.jpg" alt="OWASP_Inactive_Banner.jpg" width="800" /><figcaption>OWASP_Inactive_Banner.jpg</figcaption>
</figure></td>
<td><p>align="right"</p></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

#### Main

**Welcome to the OWASP Pantera Web Assessment Studio Project**

![Pantera1.jpg](Pantera1.jpg "Pantera1.jpg")

## Overview

Pantera uses an improved version of SpikeProxy to provide a powerful web
application analysis engine.

## Goals

The primary goal of Pantera is to combine automated capabilities with
complete manual testing to get the best penetration testing results.

## Download

Enjoy :)

<https://sourceforge.net/project/showfiles.php?group_id=64424&package_id=208668&release_id=483035>

  - Current Version: 0.1.3

Pantera Installer

<https://sourceforge.net/project/showfiles.php?group_id=64424&package_id=208668&release_id=614157>

## Installation Tips

Pantera needs:

  - Python 2.4
  - MySQL 5 (Due to the use of triggers)
  - pyOpenSSL
  - FormBuild (install script inside Pantera zip)

In case you run into troubles installing Pantera on Windows due to
OpenSSL, you can find a pyOpenSSL binary for python 2.4 here:
<http://webcleaner.sourceforge.net/pyOpenSSL-0.6.win32-py2.4.exe>

This site have a lot of python 2.4 binaries that can help you:
<http://webcleaner.sourceforge.net/install.html>

If you need more help, subscribe to Pantera Mailing list :)

## Features

The following are some notable Pantera Features:

:\***User-friendly custom web GUI. (CSS):** Pantera itself is a web
application that runs inside the browser and can be customized using CSS
by the user. Some of the customizations are visual style, colors, fonts,
views for easy information access, etc.

:\***100% python:** Python is cross-platform, easy to install and use.
Making it the perfect language of choice to use.

:\***Multi-platform (Windows, Linux, etc.) and multi-browser (IE,
Firefox, etc.):** By using Python, Pantera is cross-platform. And we
have made sure Pantera works fine with the most common browsers.

:\***Supports SSL, NTLM, HTTP Basic:** All this is supported by Pantera,
still most open source tools have problems with things like NTLM.

:\***Powerful analysis engine:** Pantera has a powerful analysis engine,
meaning that each web page that Pantera sees is analyzed for several
things like comments, scripts, vulnerabilities, hidden tags and more.
All this is done in background and transparent for the user while
testing the website manual and of course all this info is stored in the
database.

:\***XML data files for configuration and attacks:** Pantera uses XML
files for configuration but also all the attacks and tests are stored in
XML files, so it's easy to add content to these files.

:\***MySQL support:** Most tools do not allow you to save the
assessment. While performing an assessment with Pantera you can create a
session, so all the info generated while the assessment is stored in the
database. You can edit, delete and modify the content of the assessment
at your will. You can continue the next day on the same point you
stopped. Currently only MySQL is supported, more databases will be
supported in the future.

:\***Project Management:** Each assessment is a session. Pantera offers
project management to create new, open and delete projects.

:\***Plug-in support:** Pantera offers plug-in support so advanced users
can add and extent its features.

:\***Report generation:** As Pantera can save assessments it can
generate reports with all the gather data and vulnerabilities found.
Some reports formats are HTML, XML, PDF, etc. Reports can also be
customized\!\!

:\***Pantera Inline Feature:** This interesting feature allows the user
to use the browser visiting the target website and send Pantera commands
using a special syntax without switching to Pantera UI. You can do most
of the assessment by using just the browser and having Pantera in the
background by catching and analyzing all the pages you view.

:\***Many utilities. (anti-IDS, fuzzing, web spider, brute force, cgi
scanning, etc.):** Pantera comes with many features, some are common,
others aren't.

:\***Combines automated capabilities with complete manual testing to get
the best results:** That's the main goal of Pantera.

:\***Open source and freeware:** Free of charge :-D

![Pantera2.jpg](Pantera2.jpg "Pantera2.jpg")

## Future Development

Please read Pantera AOC progress page.

## News

''' Yes, we are alive and working on Pantera. Now you can find a really
cool Pantera Installer (Windows only) :) - 22:23, 17 July 2008 (EDT) '''

'''Pantera 0.1.3 is out. We are happy we have completed our AOC
sponsorship and we will like to thanks OWASP for their support\!\!
However there is a long road ahead of us and we need to keep the hard
work with your help :) - 20:44, 31 January 2007 (EDT) '''

''' We are releasing Pantera 0.1.2 with many improvements and fixes\!\!
Upgrade today :) - 15:25, 30 November 2006 (EDT) '''

`''' Finally the first public release of OWASP Pantera. Keep in mind that Pantera is beta software and we need your help to create a top-notch project!! :) - 13:14, 23 October 2006 (EDT) '''`

**`OWASP``   ``Pantera``   ``Web``   ``Assessment``   ``Studio``
 ``Project``   ``Created!``   ``-``   ``10:42,``   ``16``   ``August``
 ``2006``   ``(EDT)`**

While the Pantera Web Assessment Studio Project has been under
development for some time now, it has only recently been donated to
OWASP.

The OWASP community would like to thank Simon Roses Femerling for the
generous donation.

## Feedback and Participation:

We hope you find the OWASP Pantera Web Assessment Studio Project useful.
Please contribute to the Project by volunteering for one of the Tasks,
sending your comments, questions, and suggestions to owasp@owasp.org. To
join the OWASP Pantera Web Assessment Studio Project mailing list or
view the archives, please visit the [subscription
page.](http://lists.owasp.org/mailman/listinfo/owasp-pantera)

## Project Contributor

The project is lead by Simon Roses Femerling (pantera DOT proxy AT
gmail.com)

## Project Sponsor

The OWASP Pantera Web Assessment Studio Project is sponsored by TBD

#### Project Identification

__NOTOC__ <headertabs />

[Pantera Web Assessment Studio
Project](Category:OWASP_Project "wikilink") [Category:OWASP
Tool](Category:OWASP_Tool "wikilink") [Category:OWASP
Download](Category:OWASP_Download "wikilink")