<table>
<thead>
<tr class="header">
<th><p>width="700" align="center"</p></th>
<th><p><br />
</p></th>
<th><p>width="500" align="center"</p></th>
<th><p><br />
</p></th>
</tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>align="right"</p></td>
<td><figure>
<img src="OWASP_Inactive_Banner.jpg" title="OWASP_Inactive_Banner.jpg" alt="OWASP_Inactive_Banner.jpg" width="800" /><figcaption>OWASP_Inactive_Banner.jpg</figcaption>
</figure></td>
<td><p>align="right"</p></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

## Welcome to the OWASP Backend Security Project

OWASP Backend Security Project is the first OWASP project entirely
dedicated to the core of the Web Applications.

[OWASP Backend Security Project wiki v1.0
beta](http://www.owasp.org/index.php/OWASP_Backend_Security_Project)

Now Available PDF version: [OWASP Backend Security Project 1.0
beta.pdf](http://www.owasp.org/index.php/Image:OWASP_Backend_Security_Project_1.0beta.pdf)

Now Available DOC version: [OWASP Backend Security Project 1.0
beta.doc](http://www.owasp.org/index.php/Image:OWASP_Backend_Security_Project_1.0beta.doc)

## Objectives

The aim of this OWASP project is to create a new guide that could allow
developers, administrators and testers to comprehend any parts of the
security process about back-end components that directly communicate
with the web applications as well as databases, ldaps, payment gateway,
and much more.

## Join the project

To reach this purpose our community needs more Information Technology
security professionals as possible to create a new point of reference
for the entire OWASP community. Although these information are briefly
discussed in the others OWASP projects the community would like to
collect those already existing information and creating new sections
related to the not mentioned back-end components.

OWASP Backend Security Project is composed of three sections: security
development, security hardening, security testing.

Below are described the main professional skills requested:

`    - Web Developers`
`    - System Administrators`
`    - DB Administrators`
`    - Penetration Testers`

Below are described the main technology skills requested:

''' \* Programming Languages '''

`         - JAVA`
`         - PHP`
`         - .NET`

''' \* Database Server '''

`         - ORACLE`
`         - SQL Server`
`         - DB2`
`         - MySQL`
`         - PostgreSQL`

''' \* LDAP Server '''

`         - OpenLDAP`
`         - iPlanet LDAP`
`         - Active Directory`

''' \* Other back-end components '''

OWASP Backend Security Project needs of the OWASP community and new
volunteers to become a new point of reference about the Web Application
Security and a new OWASP success.

## Mailing List

<https://lists.owasp.org/mailman/listinfo/owasp-backend-security>

owasp-backend-security@lists.owasp.org

## News

11/21/2008 - New [wiki
page](http://www.owasp.org/index.php/OWASP_Backend_Security_Project_Proposals)
to add new proposals about the project.

11/03/2008 - OWASP Backend Security Project available in PDF (183
pages).

06/19/2008 - 1st OWASP Summer of Code 2008 deadline: 29th June 2008.

04/18/2008 - OWASP Backend Security Project will participate to the next
OWASP Summer of Code 2008.

01/31/2008 - OWASP Backend Security Project will be presented at OWASP
Day 2 organized by OWASP-Italy (Rome, University "La Sapienza" Via
Salaria, 113).

01/31/2008 - 1st dead line: (03/31/2008) - We need to collect the
existing information in other areas of the OWASP wiki for the similar
categories.

## Contacts

carlo.pelliccioni <at> gmail.com

[Backend Security Project](Category:OWASP_Project "wikilink")
[Category:OWASP Document](Category:OWASP_Document "wikilink")
[Category:OWASP Download](Category:OWASP_Download "wikilink")
[Category:OWASP Beta Quality
Document](Category:OWASP_Beta_Quality_Document "wikilink")