## Ekiosku.com jual beli online aman menyenangkan oplos

**[Ekiosku.com jual beli online aman
menyenangkan](http://bloggerparengan.blogspot.com/2013/01/ekioskucom-jual-beli-online-aman.html)**
| Ekiosku online purchase safe, fun - Detail complete information on
safe online purchase Ekiosku.com fun. Ekiosku.com online purchase safe,
fun was born in 2010, three young people come together to form the
Alliance Fleet group made several websites 2.0, among others, is
armadaoto.com, armadaproperti.com, iklandinding.com and ripiuw.com as
well as several other projects.

As time goes one partner Ekiosku.com online purchase safe, fun
experience fraudulent e-commerce transactions. Since then we tertekad
provide a secure ecommerce platform then born ekiosku.com joint account
with the payment system (REKBER) and got a good response from the public
in June 27, 2011 we made ekiosku.com in the form of a legal entity with
the vision of the company wishes to provide best secure online
marketplace in the country, with the motto "Buying and selling online is
safe, convenient, and fun" for all buyers. As well as stalls FREE & FREE
to join a commission to the seller [Promo Bonus 100% Sbobet, Ibcbet dan
Casino Online dalam rangka HUT BAVETLINE yang
kedua](http://arikseo.blogbpi.com/promo-bonus-100-sbobet-ibcbet-dan-casino-online-dalam-rangka-hut-bavetline-yang-kedua/)

Ekiosku.com online purchase safe, fun is an innovative, dynamic and
consistent art. Fully committed to provide the best for our users and
will not cease to innovate and continue to make improvements.

The number of foreign banks in Indonesia indicates that this nation
doors open for anyone to do business in this country. But why banks in
Indonesia is difficult to open a branch office overseas? Kristopo.
Jakarta to ease foreign banks to open branches in Indonesia received
special attention Director of Bank Rakyat Indonesia (BRI), Sofyan
Basir.Sofyan rate, if foreign banks can open branches in Indonesia,
Indonesian banks should also be able to open branches abroad."As a
national bank or not if Indonesia wants to open a branch office
overseas? Minimal reciprocal-lah, "said Sofyan, told reporters in mid
August 2009, in Jakarta.

According to him, if they (foreign banks) want to get into here
(Indonesia), also do the same thing to a national bank if you want to go
abroad. [Masterbet88 Grand Opening Promo Bonus 50% Sportsbook dan Casino
Online](http://kodokcorner.blogspot.com/2013/01/masterbet88-grand-opening-promo-bonus.html)"Do
they (foreign banks) say the market mechanism, so the national bank
would get in there (abroad), he (the foreign country) use regulation.
Itukan not fair," he said.

Seeing the difficulty of national banks to open branches abroad, Sofyan
we need to examine or evaluate work around again."Let's both look at
this objectively. Banking in the sense that we are so many regulations
if you want to open branches abroad, do the same. Secure our [Promo
Bonus 100% Sbobet, Ibcbet dan Casino Online dalam rangka HUT BAVETLINE
yang
kedua](http://arbo-media.blogspot.com/2013/01/promo-bonus-100-sbobet-ibcbet-dan.html)
national banking system," he explained.Sofyan also invites all
interested parties to equally mempelejari that the national banking
system are the blood of the people.

"Okay today's roads. But tomorrow, if you have 80% of foreign domination
and alien did not want to give credit below Rp500 million. As if we
could intervene? It can not, "he said.Therefore, further Sofyan, let's
look at the long term. Because national banks are the heart blood or
economic system. "Do not get the heart in love to others. As actors, we
were secured by our task as intermediary. Avoid role of 5%, then bablas
policy," he said.

Source:
<http://bloggerparengan.blogspot.com/2013/01/ekioskucom-jual-beli-online-aman.html>

## javascript, css code confidentiality

Hello. Which are the options for a developer to not have his javascript
and css code accesible to persons viewing his web application?