**OWASProfiler** will be an automated application profiling tool that
can be used to assist with review scoping refinement. It will attempt to
gauge the size and complexity of an application and utilize a standard
ranking system specified in the Masters thesis **"Metrics
Standardization of Automated Application Profiling for Review Scoping
Refinement"** by Jeremy Ferragamo of Aspect Security ([Towson
University](http://www.towson.edu) Academic Advisor: [Goran Trajkovski,
PhD](http://pages.towson.edu/gtrajkov/).).

## Goals

Provide a tool that can be used as an industry standard for gauging the
size and complexity of applications based on a specified ranking system.

## Overview

"A lack of standardized metrics for performing automated application
profiling bares a direct correlation to frequently under-scoped review
efforts. Although there are many dimensions to what constitutes an
under-scoped effort for a particular institution or a particular type of
review or maintenance effort, automated application profiling plays a
crucial role in scoping. Independent of the resources available to that
institution a robust and non-disputable understanding of what is
involved could help deter both the misallocation and under-allocation of
available resources and funding. It should also be mentioned that
without a standardized approach for determining the size and complexity
of an application, clients run the risk of project reviews being
over-scoped resulting in excessive and unnecessary expenditures."

The framework specified in the thesis will be implemented and
incremental updates will be provided as more languages and technologies
are supported in the analysis process.

## Project Contributors

The OWASProfiler project is run by Jeremy Ferragamo of Aspect Security,
Inc. He can be contacted at **jeremy DOT ferragamo AT
aspectsecurity.com**. There are no OWASProfiler distributions yet, but
they will be maintained on [SourceForge](http://www.sourceforge.net).
When completed, the OWASProfiler framework will make it extremely easy
to support additional languages.

## Timeline

**August 2007:** Projected completion date of Master's thesis with
specification of the intended framework.

**December 2007:** Projected completion date of framework and initially
supported language (Java).