<table>
<thead>
<tr class="header">
<th><p>width="700" align="center"</p></th>
<th><p><br />
</p></th>
<th><p>width="500" align="center"</p></th>
<th><p><br />
</p></th>
</tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>align="right"</p></td>
<td><figure>
<img src="OWASP_Inactive_Banner.jpg" title="OWASP_Inactive_Banner.jpg" alt="OWASP_Inactive_Banner.jpg" width="800" /><figcaption>OWASP_Inactive_Banner.jpg</figcaption>
</figure></td>
<td><p>align="right"</p></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

#### Main

The Project’s primary objective is to establish common, consistent
methods for application security assessments standards that
organizations can use as guidance on what tasks should be completed, how
the tasks should be completed and what level of assessment is
appropriate based on business requirement.

## Project Roadmap

## Project Contributors

The Application Security Assessment Standards project leader is [Matteo
Michelini](:User:Matteo_Michelini "wikilink") of Lutech SpA.

#### Project About

#### OLD_PAGE

Currently there is a lack of standardization over what constitutes an
application security assessment. With no single set of criteria being
referenced, it is suggested that OWASP establish a set of standards
defining and establishing a baseline approach to conducting differing
types/levels of application security assessment. The standards should be
flexible in design to accommodate a range of security assurance levels.
The standards should not be viewed as placing requirements on any party.
Rather, the standards should make recommendations about what should be
done to be consistent with what the OWASP community believes is best
practice. Adhering to the standards should help increase end user
organization confidence that assessments meet an industry agreed-upon
approach.

## Objective

The Project’s primary objective is to establish common, consistent
methods for application security assessments standards that
organizations can use as guidance on what tasks should be completed, how
the tasks should be completed, who should be involved and what level of
assessment is appropriate based on business requirements. The following
are seen as key tasks in order to meet this objective:

  - Where practical, attempt to “standardize” nomenclature and
    definitions for common business application types.

<!-- end list -->

  - Where practical, attempt to “standardize” nomenclature and
    definitions of the differing security assessment types.

<!-- end list -->

  - Define standard application assessment process in SWIM flow chart.

<!-- end list -->

  - Define standard assessment scope per application type.

<!-- end list -->

  - Define standard testing boundaries for application assessments.

<!-- end list -->

  - Define what is needed on business end to prepare for application
    assessment.

<!-- end list -->

  - Establish where in SDLC should assessment steps be
    defined/conducted.

<!-- end list -->

  - Where practical, attempt to “standardize” skills nomenclature and
    establish baseline assessor qualifications and evaluation criteria.

<!-- end list -->

  - Establish a common set of application assessment levels:

<!-- end list -->

  -   - Define degree of assessment depth per level
      - Define testing components required per level
      - Establish level of tool usage/type vs. hands on assessment per
        level
      - Establish linkages between level results and security metrics
        derived
      - Establish linkages between levels and Security Maturity Models

<!-- end list -->

  - Establish guidance parameters to allow organizations to determine
    appropriate assessment level based on business application to be
    assessed.

<!-- end list -->

  - Document integration/linkages to other OWASP projects.

This project will not define how to technically to conduct an assessment
(refer to OWASP Testing Project); it is instead meant to tie business
operations and information management practices to application security
in order to establish a common, consistent set of standards which
provide guidance in conducting such assessments.

## Current Project Status:

**OWASP Organization Backing**

  - Minimal feedback - Need Leadership Backing.

**Phase I – Project Approach:**

  - Minimal feedback obtained. Contributors jumped in.

**Phase II - Definitions:**

  - Define Common Business Application Types – **Need Input.**
  - Define Security Assessment Types – **Need Input.**

**Phase III – Assessment Context:**

  - Define Standard Application Assessment Process – **Stub Started -
    Need Input.**
  - Define Standard Assessment Scope Per Application Type – Need Stub
  - Define Standard Testing Boundaries For Application Assessments –
    Need Stub
  - Define Business End Preparation For Application Assessment – Need
    Stub
  - Establish Where In SDLC Should Assessment Steps Be Defined/Conducted
    – Need Stub
  - Establish Baseline Assessor Qualifications And Evaluation Criteria –
    **Stub Started - Need Input.**

**Phase IV – Assessment Levels:**

*\[ Suggest Establishment of Definitions and Context prior to
commencement \]*

  - Establish assessment level system common terminology and decision
    criteria - Included is analysis of potentially corresponding
    security measurements (i.e. common security metrics, security
    assurance/maturity models, related legislation, other standards,
    etc.).
  - Create assessment levels based on previous Phase II and III
    objectives. Define assessment depth, testing components required,
    and level of tool usage/type (not product names) of tools used per
    level.
  - Document corresponding linkages between assessment levels and common
    security metrics, security assurance/maturity models, related
    legislation, other documented national standards defined as
    component of first Phase III objective.
  - Establish guidance parameters to allow organizations to determine
    appropriate assessment level based on business application to be
    assessed.

Also refer to project Roadmap.

## Feedback and Participation

We hope you find the OWASP Application Security Assessment Standards
Project useful. Please contribute back to the project by sending your
comments, questions, and suggestions to owasp@owasp.org. To join the
OWASP Assessment Standards mailing list or view the archives, please
visit the [subscription
page.](http://lists.owasp.org/mailman/listinfo/owasp-appsec-standards)

## Project Contributers

The Assessment Standards project lead is Cliff Barlow of KoreLogic
Security. He can be reached at cbarlow@korelogic.com.

Key contributors:

  - Bob Austin, KoreLogic Security

<!-- end list -->

  - Jeff Williams, Aspect Security

<!-- end list -->

  - Vinay Bansal, Cisco Systems

<!-- end list -->

  - Imre Kertesz, KoreLogic Security

__NOTOC__ <headertabs />

[Application Security Assessment Standards
Project](Category:OWASP_Project "wikilink")
[Category:OWASP_Document](Category:OWASP_Document "wikilink")
[Category:OWASP_Alpha_Quality_Document](Category:OWASP_Alpha_Quality_Document "wikilink")