## The Articles

:\*Mark Burnett - [Blocking Brute Force
Attacks](Blocking_Brute_Force_Attacks "wikilink")

:\*Mark Burnett - [Using Secret
Questions](Using_Secret_Questions "wikilink")

:\*George Capehart - [A Tale of Two
Systems](A_Tale_of_Two_Systems "wikilink")

:\*George Capehart -[The Web Services Architecture and
Security](Web_Services_Architecture_and_Security "wikilink")

:\*George Capehart - [There Is More to Securing Web Services Systems
Than
WS-Security](Theres_More_to_Securing_Web_Services_Systems_Than_WS-Security "wikilink")

:\*Mark Curphey - [A Tailored Web Application Security Documentation
Framework](Documentation_Framework "wikilink")

:\*Mark Curphey - [History isn't always pretty and today isn't always
inspiring (unless you live in Boston of
course)](History_Isnt_Always_Pretty "wikilink")

:\*Joe Lima - [Authentication in IIS](Authentication_In_IIS "wikilink")

:\*Joe Lima - [What is IIS Security?](What_is_IIS_Security "wikilink")

:\*Jeremy Poteet - [Be Careful What You
Say](Be_Careful_What_You_Say "wikilink")

:\*Jeremy Poteet - [Have Your Cake and Eat It
Too](Have_Your_Cake_and_Eat_It_Too "wikilink")

:\*Jeff Williams - [Access Control (aka Authorization) in Your J2EE
Application](Access_Control_In_Your_J2EE_Application "wikilink")

:\*Jeff Williams - [How to Build an HTTP Request Validation Engine for
Your J2EE
Application](How_to_Build_an_HTTP_Request_Validation_Engine_for_Your_J2EE_Application "wikilink")

:\*Jeff Williams - [Let's Sue the Idiots -- Security, Software,
Contracts, and Lawyers](Let's_Sue_The_Idiots "wikilink")

:\*Jeff Williams - [Trustworthy Java - Are Your Apps
Bulletproof?](Trustworthy_Java "wikilink")

## The Authors

### George Capehart

George has been working in computing since DEC, Data General, Texas
Instruments and Wang were making minicomputers, tape was made of paper
and /dev/tty really was a TeleType machine. Over his career he has been
exposed to just about every aspect of IT systems and has done everything
from crimping cable to leading an IT group. For the last five years,
George has done international consulting focusing on the impact of the
paradigm shift induced by the emergence of e-business and EAI on
business and technical operations, the risk and trust management issues
that accompany this shift, and the implications of all of these for
systems security engineering, the risk management process, and the SDLC.

### Jeff Williams

Jeff is the CEO of [Aspect Security](http://www.aspectsecurity.com), a
leading provider of application security services including security
code review, penetration testing, secure development training, and
security engineering services. Jeff speaks regularly about application
security and leads the [Top Ten
project](OWASP_Top_Ten_Project "wikilink") for OWASP. In addition,
Aspect created WebGoat, and donated it to OWASP to help the community
learn about application security. Jeff holds advanced degrees in
computer science and human factors, as well as a law degree from
Georgetown University.

### Joe Lima

Joe Lima has led the product development and support teams at Port80
Software since its inception. He has worked for a variety of Internet,
wireless and software development companies, specializing in research
and development for server-centric technologies. A lecturer at the
University of California, San Diego and a published author on Web server
technologies, Joe Lima brings a depth of knowledge on HTTP and server
systems coupled with an everyday understanding of the challenges faced
by Web administrators.

### Mark Curphey

Mark was the original OWASP founder and is the moderator of the
webappsec mailing list at Security Focus and has a Masters Degree in
Information Security from Royal Holloway, University of London.
Currently on a long term contract in Boston, he was previously the
Director for Information Security at Charles Schwab in San Francisco and
ran the consulting teams on the East Coast for Internet Security Systems
out of Atlanta before that. He has held various positions with
international investment banks in Europe and North America. In his spare
time he enjoys his family (wife Cara, Son Jack (aged 2 years) and
daughter Hana (aged 2 months)). Mark is the Chair of the WAS Technical
Commitee at OASIS, a project he thinks we revolutionize the web security
tools industry.

### Jeremy Poteet

Jeremy is one of the leaders for the OWASP Guide and an active member of
the OWASP Testing Methodology Project. He also acts as the liason
officer for the WAS-TC at OASIS and is a member of the AVDL TC. He is
the Chief Security Officer for appDefense and a CISSP. Jeremy is the
co-author of "Extreme Programming with Ant" and was the winner of
eWeek's OpenHack IV competition.