#### Main

## Introduction

Welcome to OWASP Web Services Security Project. This project is designed
to serve as a starting point for any web services related inquiries on
OWASP. Please note that this is NOT a standalone project and will draw
upon relevant resources from other OWASP and external pages.

## Goals

The OWASP Web Services Security Project aims to include and maintain a
comprehensive list of links to OWASP and external resources.

## Web Services Security

OWASP related Web Services links:

\[1\] [OWASP Web Services](http://www.owasp.org/index.php/Web_Services)
- A comprehensive introduction to Web Services.

\[2\] [There is More to Securing Web Services Systems Than WS
Security](http://www.owasp.org/index.php/Theres_More_to_Securing_Web_Services_Systems_Than_WS-Security)
- Insightful page on Web Services Security.

\[3\] [.NET Web Service
Validation](http://www.owasp.org/index.php/.NET_Web_Service_Validation)
- .NET approach to validating Web Services.

## Project Contributors

If you contribute to this Project, please add your name here.
Project Leads:

  - [Subu Ramanathan](User:Subu_Ramanathan "wikilink")
  - [Sahba Kazerooni](User:skazerooni "wikilink")

#### Web Services Standards

## OWASP Web Services Standards Links

[OWASP Guide
Project](http://www.owasp.org/index.php/Category:OWASP_Guide_Project) -
A comprehensive development guide on building secure Web Service
Applications.

## External Web Services Standards Links

*This section of the page needs to be updated*

#### Web Services Tools

## OWASP Web Services Tools

[WSFuzzer](http://www.owasp.org/index.php/Category:OWASP_WSFuzzer_Project)

[Interceptor](http://www.owasp.org/index.php/Category:OWASP_Interceptor_Project)

## External Web Services Tools

*This section of the page needs to be updated*

#### Testing Web Services

## OWASP Links

[Testing Web
Services](http://www.owasp.org/index.php/Testing_for_Web_Services) -
Comprehensive OWASP Guide on Testing Web Services.

## External Links

*This section of the page needs to be updated*

#### Documents & Presentations

## OWASP Documents and Presentations

**Documents Related to Web Services**

[Web Services
Security](http://www.owasp.org/index.php/Image:Web_services_security.doc)

**Presentations Related to Web Services**

[InfoSec
World 2007](http://www.owasp.org/index.php/Image:InfoSec_World_2007_-_Web_services_gateways.ppt)
- Web Services Gateways presentation from InfoSec World 2007.

[Attacking Web
Services](http://www.owasp.org/index.php/Image:AppSec2005DC-Alex_Stamos-Attacking_Web_Services.ppt)
- OWASP AppSec 2005 DC presentation on Attacking Web Services by Alex
Stamos.

[WS
Security](http://www.owasp.org/index.php/Image:OWASPAppSec2006Seattle_Web_Services_Security.ppt)
- OWASP AppSec 2006 Seattle presentation on Web Services Security.

[Secure SOAP
Requests](http://www.owasp.org/index.php/image:OWASPAppSecEU2006_InlineApproachforSecureSOAPRequests.ppt)
- OWASP AppSec 2006 EU presentation on Inline Approach for Secure SOAP
Requests.

[Don't Drop the
SOAP](http://www.owasp.org/index.php/image:Don’t_drop_the_SOAP_OWASP.ppt)

[OWASP Web Services
Project](http://www.owasp.org/index.php/image:AppSec2005DC-Alex_Smolen-OWASP_WebServices_Project.ppt)
- OWASP AppSec 2005 DC presentation on the OWASP Web Services Project by
Alex Smolen.

[Protecting Web
Services](http://www.owasp.org/index.php/image:OWASPAppSecEU2006_ProtectingWebServicesAndAapplications.ppt)
- OWASP AppSec 2006 EU presentation on Protesting Web Services and
Applications.

## External Documents & Presentations

*This section of the page needs to be updated*

#### OLD_PAGE

## Welcome to the OWASP Web Services Security Project

\[a brief about web services security in general and the current state
of OWASP in web services security\]

The following document outlines a proposed layout for a new Web Services
Security Project for the Open Web Application Security Project (OWASP).

## Current State

**Current Relevant OWASP Pages**

1\. Web Services a. Securing web services b. Communication security c.
Passing credentials d. Ensuring message freshness e. Protecting message
integrity f. Protecting message confidentiality g. Access control h.
Audit i. Web services security hierarchy i. standard committees j. SOAP
i. XML signatures and encryption ii. Security specifications k.
WS-Security standard i. Organization of the standard ii. Purpose l.
WS-Security Building blocks i. How data is passed ii. Security header’s
structure iii. Types of tokens iv. Referencing message parts m.
Communication protection mechanisms i. Integrity ii. Confidentiality
iii. Freshness n. Access control mechanisms i. Identification ii.
Authentication iii. Authorization iv. Policy agreement o. Forming web
services chains i. Incompatible user access control models ii. Service
trust iii. Secure connections iv. Synchronization of user directories v.
Domain federation p. Available implementations i. .NET – Web services
extensions ii. Java toolkits iii. Hardware software systems q. Problems
i. Immaturity of the standards ii. Performance iii. Complexity and
interoperability iv. Key management r. Further reading

2\. A Tale of Two Systems - case studies of two hypothetical systems,
one of which involves openning a mainframe app to the web using a web
service, and the risks that are posed.

3\. Theres More to Securing Web Services Systems Than WS-Security a.
What is a web service b. Web services from the information security
perspective c. Some security implications of this perspective i.
Emergent risks ii. End-to-end controls d. Interconnection of systems
from different trust domains i. Some implications of the organization’s
risk management process and system development life cycle ii. Emerging
standards for securing web services iii. WS-Security specifications in
process iv. Trust management revisited e. References

4\. Web Services Architecture and Security a. The web services
architecture b. Service oriented architectures and distributed systems
c. Complexity is the enemy of security… d. The architectural models e.
The policy model f. The service oriented model g. The resource oriented
model h. The message oriented model i. The management model j. The rest
k. References

5\. Testing for Web Services (from OWASP Testing Guide) a. XML
Structural Testing b. XML Content-level Testing c. HTTP GET
parameters/REST Testing d. Naughty SOAP attachments e. Replay Testing

6\. Image:Web services security.doc

7\. Image:InfoSec_World_2007_-_Web_services_gateways.ppt

8\. Image:AppSec2005DC-Alex_Stamos-Attacking_Web_Services.ppt

9\. Image:OWASPAppSec2006Seattle_Web_Services_Security.ppt

10\. .NET Web Service Validation a. Perfomance penalties b. Downloading
c. Installation d. Reporting Bugs e. Use i. Methods of use ii.
Attributes iii. Web.config changes iv. Using validation v. Using
assertions

11\. OWASP WSFuzzer Project

12\. OWASP interceptor Project

13\. OWASP Guide

14\. OWASPAppSecEU2006_InlineApproachforSecureSOAPRequests.ppt

15\.
Category_talk:OWASP_XML_Security_Gateway_Evaluation_Criteria_Project

16\. Don’t drop the SOAP OWASP.ppt

17\. AppSec2005DC-Alex_Smolen-OWASP_WebServices_Project.ppt

18\. AppSec2005DC-Jeff_Williams-OWASP_AppSec_Guide_2.0.ppt

19\. OWASPAppSecEU2006_ProtectingWebServicesAndAapplications.ppt

**Content**

\- Completeness

\- Relevance

\- Target audience

**Organization**

\- Ease of navigation

\- Ease of locating a specific topic

\- Communication of updates

**Search**

\-

## Desired State

**Content**

\- Completeness

\- Relevance

\- Target audience

**Organization**

\- Ease of navigation

\- Ease of locating a specific topic

\- Communication of updates

**Search**

\-

## Proposed Layout

The proposed OWASP Web Services Security Project will serve as a
starting point for any web services-related inquiries on OWASP. It will
consist of a launchpad or home page with an introduction to the project,
regular updates to pages in the project, and links to project pages and
external resources.

![WS_Launchpad.jpg](WS_Launchpad.jpg "WS_Launchpad.jpg")

<b>Introduction</b>

\[brief description here\]

<b>Updates</b>

\[brief description here\]

<b>External Links</b>

\[brief description here\]

<b>OWASP Pages</b>

\[brief description here\]

<b>WS Security Docs/Presentations</b>

\[brief description here\]

<b>WS Standards</b>

\[brief description here\]

<b>WS Communications</b>

\[brief description here\]

<b>XML Security</b>

\[brief description here\]

<b>Testing Web Services</b>

\[brief description here\]

<b>WS Tools</b>

\[brief description here\]

<b>WS Gateways</b>

\[brief description here\]

<b>SOA Architecture and Design</b>

\[brief description here\]

<b>WS Implementation Platforms</b>

\[brief description here\]

<b>OWASP Top 10 Web Services Chapter</b>

\[brief description here\]

## Goals & Roadmap

Currently the project goals are to:

  - Creation of launch pad layout

<!-- end list -->

  - Create template start page for each subtopic

<!-- end list -->

  - Find solid external resources

<!-- end list -->

  - Recruit volunteer team (2-4 person)

<!-- end list -->

  - For each topic:

\- Create start page for the subtopic topic

\- Gather all existing relevant articles within OWASP

\- Create plan of consolidating all the relevant information

\- Contact authors of relevant articles if change is required

\- Consolidate all information on the topic

\- Find solid external resources

\- Create link back to the main Web Services Security Project launchpad

  - Research way of communicating any updates to web services pages on
    launchpad

<!-- end list -->

  - Search optimization (both OWASP and Google)

A detailed project plan and schedule will be developed shortly and
posted here.

## Project Guiding Principles

tbd

## Resources and links

This project is not standalone. This project will draw pieces of
information from:

  - OWASP Guide
  - Other OWASP pages
  - OWASP documents
  - Relevant external links

...

## Feedback and Participation:

We hope you find the OWASP Web Services Security Project to be useful.
Please contribute to the Project by volunteering for one of the Tasks,
sending your comments, questions, and suggestions to
sahba@securitycompass.com.

## Project Contributors

If you contribute to this Project, please add your name here.
Project Leads:

  - [Nish Bhalla](User:nbhalla "wikilink")
  - [Sahba Kazerooni](User:skazerooni "wikilink")
  - [Subu Ramanathan](User:Subu_Ramanathan "wikilink")

Contributors:

  - you? ...

#### Project Identification

__NOTOC__ <headertabs/>

[Web Services Security Project](Category:OWASP_Project "wikilink")
[Category:OWASP Document](Category:OWASP_Document "wikilink")
[Category:OWASP Alpha Quality
Document](Category:OWASP_Alpha_Quality_Document "wikilink")