Here you will find documentation to help you manage your chapter. If you
have any documentation you use for setting up your meetings, please feel
free to [pass it along](mailto:owasp@owasp.org) for consideration. If
you have any questions or need direction on the OWASP Chapter resources
available to you, please contact the Community Manager, [Dawn
Aitken](mailto:dawn.aitken@owasp.org).

## Chapter Handbook

The OWASP [Chapter Leader Handbook](Chapter_Leader_Handbook "wikilink")
is the definite guide for starting and operating an OWASP chapter. In
contains both official rules and unofficial tips for running a chapter.
All OWASP Chapter leaders are invited to add their own tips and tricks.

## Chapter Materials

The [OWASP Foundation](OWASP_Foundation "wikilink") can provide you with
OWASP books, shirts, pens, lanyards, flyers, or other materials that you
might need to jump-start your next meeting. Please visit \[OWASP
Merchandise\].

## Chapter Sponsorship

It will usually be necessary to obtain sponsorship for your chapter's
operations. This can come from local businesses or larger companies.
Take a minute to review the [OWASP presentation for potential
sponsorship](:Image:OWASP_-_Presentation_for_potential_sponsorships.doc "wikilink")
for some ideas on how to approach potential sponsors.

## Chapter Downloads

Download a zip file of the [OWASP Logo in Illustrator and EPS
format](http://www.owasp.org/images/2/28/OWASP_Logo.zip). Additional
downloads can be found in the **Media** section below.

## Chapter Presentations

There are many presentations available on the [OWASP
Presentations](:Category:OWASP_Presentations "wikilink") page. Also,
many of the best presentations are on the [OWASP AppSec
Conference](:Category:OWASP_AppSec_Conference "wikilink") page. Check
the agenda, where all the presentations are linked.

## Chapter Leader Mailing List and Meetings

The chapter leader mailing list is
[here](http://lists.owasp.org/mailman/listinfo/owasp-chapters). Minutes
from chapter leader meetings can be found in the **Articles** section
below.