1.  REDIRECT [:Israel](:Israel "wikilink")

[center](image:Owasp_Israel_logo.png "wikilink")

<paypal>Israel</paypal>

## OWASP Activity

  - An annual conference, usually in September or October.
  - Periodic meetings. If you would like to host a meeting or speak in
    one contact [Avi Douglen](mailto:avi.douglen@owasp.org) or [Or
    Katz](mailto:katz3112@gmail.com).
  - [OWASP Top 10 Hebrew translation](OWASP_Top10_Hebrew "wikilink").
  - Security discussion forum in Hebrew - on
    [Facebook](https://www.facebook.com/groups/owasp.il/).
  - [LinkedIn Group](https://www.linkedin.com/groups/39702) for
    networking and announcements.
  - [Chat room for security in
    Hebrew](https://owasp.slack.com/messages/chapter-israel/).
  - [Meetings and socialization on
    Meetup](http://www.meetup.com/OWASP-Israel/).
  - [Twitter account](https://twitter.com/OWASP_IL).
  - Spreading the Word - Reaching out for more people, especially
    outside of the AppSec community.
  - [Sponsorship opportunities](OWASP_IL_Sponsorship "wikilink"),
    including \#AppSecIL conference sponsorship.

If you have anything else on your mind, please speak up\! Contact [Avi
Douglen](mailto:avi.douglen@owasp.org) with any ideas you have.

## Hebrew Translations

  - '''The OWASP Top 10, 2013 version was translated to Hebrew\!

It is now [available for download](OWASP_Top10_Hebrew "wikilink").'''

The [OWASP Risk Rating
Methodology](OWASP_Risk_Rating_Methodology "wikilink"), part of the
[OWASP Testing Project](OWASP_Testing_Project "wikilink"), has been
translated to Hebrew, and is available for download in [PDF
format](Media:OWASP_Risk_Rating_Methodology-Hebrew.pdf "wikilink"). Much
thanks to Tal Argoni from TriadSec.

## Chapter Sponsors

The OWASP Israel chapter's yearly activity is being supported by the
generous sponsorship of the following companies:

## Previous OWASP Israel Conferences and Meetings

[OWASP Israel April 2017](OWASP_Israel_April_2017 "wikilink") took place
in Checkmarx's offices, in the Amot Atrium Tower, 2 Jabotinsky St.,
Ramat Gan, on April 3rd, 2016. Around 75 people attended.

[OWASP Israel January 2017](OWASP_Israel_January_2017 "wikilink") took
place in Radware’s Tel Aviv offices, at Raul Wallenberg 22, Ramat
HaChayal, on January 18th, 2016. Around 120 people attended.

  - [AppSec Israel 2016](AppSec_Israel_2016 "wikilink") Conference was
    held on Monday, September 19th, at the College of Management, with
    more than 650 attendees\! (Use the [presentations info
    page](AppSec_Israel_2016_Presentations "wikilink") to download
    presentations and videos)

[OWASP Israel June 2016](OWASP_Israel_June_2016 "wikilink") took place
in the Amdocs Auditorium in Raanana, on June 14, 2016.

[OWASP Israel April 2016](OWASP_Israel_April_2016 "wikilink") was held
at HP Enterprise in Yehud, on April 12, 2016, with over 150
participants.

[OWASP Israel February 2016](OWASP_Israel_February_2016 "wikilink") was
held at F5 Networks in Tel Aviv, on February 2, 2016.

  - [AppSec Israel 2015](AppSec_Israel_2015 "wikilink") Conference was
    held on October 13th, at the College of Management, with over 550
    participants\! (Use the [presentations info
    page](AppSec_Israel_2015_Presentations "wikilink") to download
    presentations)

[OWASP Israel June 2015](OWASP_Israel_June_2015 "wikilink") was held at
Microsoft in Herzeliya, on June 16, 2015, with around 120 participants.

[OWASP Israel March 2015](OWASP_Israel_March_2015 "wikilink") was held
at NCR in Raanana, on March 30, 2015, with over 120 participants.

  - [AppSec Israel 2014](AppSec_Israel_2014 "wikilink") Conference was
    held on September 2nd, at the IDC, with over 450 participants\! (Use
    the [presentations info
    page](AppSec_Israel_2014_Presentations "wikilink") to download
    presentations)

[OWASP Israel June 2014](OWASP_Israel_June_2014 "wikilink") was held at
F5 Networks in Tel Aviv, on June 16, 2014, with over 110 participants.

[OWASP Israel April 2014](OWASP_Israel_April_2014 "wikilink") was held
at Akamai in Herzliya Pituach, on April 23, 2014, with close to 100
participants.

[OWASP Israel January 2014](OWASP_Israel_January_2014 "wikilink") was
held at Amdocs in Ra'anana on January 14th, 2014, with over 120
participants.

  - [OWASP Israel 2013](OWASP_Israel_2013 "wikilink") Conference held on
    October 1st with close to 480 participants\! (Use the [presentations
    info page](OWASP_Israel_2013_Presentations "wikilink") to download
    presentations)

[OWASP Israel May 2013](OWASP_Israel_2013_05 "wikilink") was held at RSA
on May 28th 2013 with 80 participants.

[OWASP Israel February 2013](OWASP_Israel_2013_02 "wikilink") meeting
was held at E\&Y on February 12th 2013 ([Hebrew
version](OWASP_ISRAEL_2013_02_Hebrew "wikilink")).

  - [OWASP Israel 2012 conference](OWASP_Israel_2012 "wikilink") Was
    held at the IDC on Sep 5th 2012.

<!-- end list -->

  - [OWASP Israel 2011 Conference](OWASP_Israel_2011 "wikilink") Was
    held in the IDC in Herzliya on Sep 15th 2011, with about 350
    attendees.

<!-- end list -->

  - [OWASP Israel 2010 Conference](OWASP_Israel_2010 "wikilink") Was
    held in the IDC in Herzliya on Sep 6th 2010 with about 150
    attendees.

[OWASP Israel Jun-2010](OWASP_Israel_2010_06 "wikilink") meeting was
held in IBM/Watchfire in Herzliya on Jun 22nd 2010.

[OWASP Israel Feb-2010](OWASP_Israel_2010_02 "wikilink") meeting was
held in Amdocs in Ra'anana on Feb 9th 2010 with over 70 attendees.

[OWASP Israel Jan-2010](OWASP_Israel_2010_01 "wikilink") meeting was
held in Breach Security in Herzliya on Jan 12th 2010 with over 60
attendees.

[OWASP Israel Dec-2009](OWASP_Israel_2009_12 "wikilink") meeting was
held in IBM/Watchfire in Herzliya in Dec 2009.

  - [OWASP Israel 2009](OWASP_Israel_2009 "wikilink") conference was
    held at the Interdisciplinary Center Herzliya on Sunday, September
    6th 2009.
    You can find the agenda and uploaded presentations
    [here](OWASP_Israel_2009 "wikilink").

<!-- end list -->

  - [OWASP Israel May 2009 meeting](OWASP_Israel_2009_05 "wikilink") was
    held at IBM in Park Azorim in Petach-Tikva on May 7th. The
    presentations were:

<!-- end list -->

  - Web-Based Man-in-the-Middle Attack, Adi Sharabani, IBM ([more
    info](http://blog.watchfire.com/wfblog/2009/02/active-man-in-the-middle-attacks.html))
  - Automation Attacks and Counter Measures, Ofer Shezaf, Xiom
    ([presentation](http://www.owasp.org/images/5/58/OWASP_Israel_-_May_2009_-_Ofer_Shezaf_-_Automation_Attacks.pdf))

<!-- end list -->

  -
    [Full details in Hebrew](OWASP_ISRAEL_2009_05_Hebrew "wikilink")

<!-- end list -->

  - [OWASP Israel March 2009 meeting](OWASP_Israel_2009_03 "wikilink")
    was held at the Tel-Aviv University on March 26th, with
    approximately 60 attendees. The presentations were:

<!-- end list -->

  - Securing cellular web applications, Mikko Saario, Founder, OWASP
    Finland, Security Architect, Large Telecom Solution Provider
    ([download](Media:OWASP_Israel_-_March_2009_-_Mikko_Saario_-_Web_Application_Security_in_the_Mobile_World.pdf‎ "wikilink"))
  - Real world implementation of a PCI DSS compliance key management,
    Yaron Hakon, [2bsecure](http://www.2bsecure.co.il)
    ([download](Media:OWASP_Israel_-_March_2009_-_Yaron_Hakon_-_PCI_key_managment.pdf‎ "wikilink"))
  - Detecting RFI attacks, Or Katz, [Breach
    Security](http://www.breach.com)
    ([download](Media:OWASP_Israel_-_March_2009_-_Or_Katz_-_RFI_detection.pdf‎ "wikilink"))
  - WAFEC 2.0 - Do WAFs deliver?, Ofer Shezaf,
    [Xiom](http://www.xiom.com)
    ([download](Media:OWASP_Israel_-_March_2009_-_Ofer_Shezaf_-_Why_WAFs_fail.pdf‎ "wikilink"))

<!-- end list -->

  -
    [Full details in Hebrew](OWASP_ISRAEL_2009_03_Hebrew "wikilink")

<!-- end list -->

  - [OWASP Israel January 2009 meeting](OWASP_Israel_2009_01 "wikilink")
    was held at Checkpoint on January 28th, with over a 100 people
    attending. The presentations were:

<!-- end list -->

  - Improving Web Application Firewall testing for better deployment in
    production network, Gregory Fresnais from BreakingPoint, visiting us
    from France
    ([download](Media:OWASP_Israel_2009_01_Gregory_Fresnais_Measuring_WAF_Performance.pdf‎ "wikilink"))
  - Web 2.0 Hacking, Nimrod Luria, Qrity
    ([download](Media:OWASP_Israel_2009_01_Nimrod_Luria_Web_2.0_Security.pdf‎ "wikilink"))
  - Wiki Security, Ofer Shezaf, Xiom
    ([download](http://www.xiom.com/research/wiki_security))

<!-- end list -->

  - [The OWASP Israel 2008 conference at the Interdisciplinary Center
    Herzliya
    (IDC)](OWASP_Israel_2008_Conference_at_the_Interdisciplinary_Center_Herzliya "wikilink")
    was held on September 14th with 250 attendees.

<!-- end list -->

  - OWASP Israel at the [IDC Security Road
    Show](http://www.idc.co.il/?showproduct=31108&content_lang=ENG)
    OWASP sponsored the IDC Security Road Show event in Israel on June
    3rd 2008. Thanks for Iris Lev-Ari and Tomer Teller for the help in
    the OWASP booth.

<!-- end list -->

  - [OWASP Israel 2007 conference at the Interdisciplinary Center
    Herzliya (IDC)](OWASP_Israel_2007_Conference "wikilink")
    the 1st official OWASP conference in Israel, was held on Dec 3rd
    2007 at the Interdisciplinary Center (IDC) Herzliya. The conference
    really set itself as an event you must come to if you have anything
    to do with application security. \[ [pictures from the
    conference](http://picasaweb.google.com/oshezaf/OWASPIsrael2007)

[Category:OWASP_Chapter](Category:OWASP_Chapter "wikilink")
[Category:Middle East](Category:Middle_East "wikilink")
[Category:Europe](Category:Europe "wikilink")