## **OWASP Logging Project Roadmap**



### **Goals**

  - Provide tools for software developers in order to help them define
    and provide meaningful logs
  - Provide code audit tools to ensure that log messages are consistent
    and complete (content, format, timestamps)
  - Facilitate the integration of logs from different sources
  - Facilitate attack reconstruction
  - Facilitate information sharing around security events




### '''SubprojectsÂ  '''(Your contributions on any of the subjects below are very welcome)

1\) IDE integration (auto-completion, templates, logging policy
definition support) for guiding software developers to define and
provide meaningful logs

2\) Implement the Standardized Common Event Expression (CEE) for Event
Interoperability.

CEE includes: Event Taxonomy, Standard terminology, Log Syntax,
Consistent data elements and format, Log Transport Standard
communications mechanisms, Log Recommendations See
<http://cee.mitre.org/> and
<http://n2.nabble.com/attachment/1143183/0/useCases_A2.doc>

3\) Integrating application logs into a Security Information Management
configuration

OSSIM (http://www.ossim.net/) has numerous plugins for parsing
webserver, appserver, WAF, IPS, IDS logs and generating/storing events
in its standard format.

Adding a plugin for parsing custom application logs is as easy as
finding the correct regular expression provided that developers included
all relevant information in the log message and that they have done so
in a consistent way.

You can refer to the OSSIM database model to see what data is stored for
events.

4\) Reconstructing attacks It is difficult to analyze, filter and
generally reconstruct an attack because messages are spread around
various log levels.

Arshan Dabirsiaghi's proposal of adding a security log level is very
interesting See
<http://www.owasp.org/index.php/How_to_add_a_security_log_level_in_log4j>

5\) Implement automated code audit tools (s.a. OWASP yasca) to ensure
that log messages are consistent and complete (content, format,
timestamps)

Related OWASP projects:
<http://www.owasp.org/index.php/Category:OWASP_Orizon_Project>

6\) Implement scripts for filtering/scrubbing logs in order to enable
log data sharing between organizations Goal: information sharing around
security events