#### Main

## Welcome to the XML Security Gateway Evaluation Criteria Project

This OWASP Project defines an open standard for evaluating XML Security
Gateways. This criteria will provide the OWASP community a set of
standard evaluation criteria to assess the functionality and quality of
XML Security Gateways. The main driver for this project is to reduce the
confusion and complexity in assessing the strengths and weaknesses of
solutions in this the XML Security space, and enlightening the community
as to the utility of XML Security Gateways to deliver a number of
valuable security services.

## Project Guiding Principles:

The XML Security Gateway Evaluation Criteria (XSGEC) Projectâs Guiding
Principles were created in order to express the intentions of its
contributors when designing the criteria.

  - Create evaluation criteria supporting a transparent, level playing
    field for XML Security Gateway solutions to define their solution's
    key value proposition

<!-- end list -->

  - Where practical, attempt to standardize nomenclature and metrics

<!-- end list -->

  - Educate the community on the design considerations for XML security

## Project Scope:

This project will focus on evaluation criteria for XML Security
Gateways, that are commonly used in SOAP, Web services, SOA, and Rest
applications.

## Versions:

The latest version of the XSGEC is here
<https://www.owasp.org/index.php/Category:OWASP_XML_Security_Gateway_Evaluation_Criteria_Project_Latest>

## Feedback and Participation:

We hope you find the OWASP XML Security Gateway Project useful. Please
contribute to the Project by volunteering for one of the Tasks, sending
your comments, questions, and suggestions to owasp@owasp.org. To join
the OWASP XML Security Gateway Project mailing list or view the
archives, please visit
<http://lists.owasp.org/mailman/listinfo/owasp-xsgec>

## Project Contributors:

If you contribute to this Project, please add your name here Project
Lead:

  - Gunnar Peterson. He can be reached at gunnar@arctecgroup.net

Contributors:

  - James McGovern, Virtusa
  - Sebastien Deleersnyder, Telindus
  - Muthu Meyyappan, United Healthcare
  - Mark O'Neill, Vordel
  - Ivan Ristic, Breach Security
  - Brian Roddy, Cisco
  - Philippe Bogaerts, NetAppSec
  - Paul Lesov, Wells Fargo
  - Lori MacVittie, F5 Networks

## More Information:

Security Concepts, Challenges, and Design Considerations for Web
Services Integration, By Howard Lipson and Gunnar Peterson
<https://buildsecurityin.us-cert.gov/daisy/bsi/articles/best-practices/assembly/639.html?branch=1&language=1>

Web Application Firewall Evaluation Criteria - WASC project with similar
approach, focused on the Web App FW space
<http://www.webappsec.org/projects/wafec/>

#### Project Details

__NOTOC__ <headertabs />

[XML Security Gateway Evaluation Criteria
Project](Category:OWASP_Project "wikilink")