## Meeting Details

  - 15:00 UTC/GMT
  - Bridge line: 1-866-534-4754, Code: "OWASP" (69277)

## Role Call

### Present

  - Kate Hartmann (Operations Director)
  - Kelly SantaLucia (Opp Support - Membership)
  - Sarah Baso (Opp Support - Chapters, Industry, Conferences)
  - Jason Li (Projects)
  - Dan Cornell (Membership)
  - Joe Bernik (Industry)
  - Matt Tesauro (Board)
  - Mark Bristow (Conferences)

### Absent

  - Jim Manico (Connections)
  - Tin Zaw (Chapters)
  - Martin Knobloch (Education)

## Agenda

### Old Business - follow up

  - Committee budget’s need to be submitted to Kate by March 28 (a week
    before the next Board meeting on April 4), so the Board has time to
    review the budgets before the meeting – budgets should have
    items/funding initiatives prioritized
      - MT - one of the hold outs on approving the entirety of the
        committee budgets at the last board meeting b/c wanted better
        picture of finances. Agreed to tentative 50%, but wanted to talk
        with the committee chairs. Issue is that don't want to approve
        budgets if don't have money in bank to cover them. We are
        relying on income from AppSec EU and AppSec US to build up OWASP
        Foundation operational and savings account. Committees can have
        budgets, but if they can look at what is a top priority and what
        can be delayed until later in the year.
      - Action items - Committees to take another look at budget, goals,
        and ROI for each of the expenses.
      - Action item - JB, once audit is complete, JB to look at
        budgeting and financial process and help OWASP analyze what we
        are doing right/wrong.

<!-- end list -->

  - Review KH’s proposed [org
    chart](http://www.owasp.org/images/3/32/Org_chart.pdf) and send her
    any comments or suggestions
      - Tabled for next meeting

<!-- end list -->

  - Membership Committee should come up with a possible tiered
    membership approach and then talk to the Industry Committee for
    feedback on what individuals from Industry would like to see.
      - DC is discussing and working with the membership committee to
        come up with various solutions to membership options.
      - Action item: DC (membership) and JB (Industry) to discuss plan
        for moving forward.

<!-- end list -->

  - OWASP Points Program -- Each committee should provide MB with a list
    of what points should be given to people related to that committee’s
    tasks/roles - Self Nomination for Honorary Membership to begin
      - Membership wants to move forward with "honorary memberships" and
        this should be coordinated with MB's point system. DC and MB to
        talk on this
      - MB to discuss progress on points system at next meeting
      - Action: committee chairs to determine points related to their
        committees

<!-- end list -->

  - Currently, Education, Chapters, and Membership Committees should
    group up and discuss who should handle what and make sure they are
    on the same page with regard to OWASP University Chapters and
    Academies Program
      - Tabled since only DC (membership) on call.

<!-- end list -->

  - Each committee should review or draft their mission statement and
    role(s) within OWASP to discuss at next committee chairs meeting.
      - GIC new mission statement approved.
      - Other Committees

### New Items

  - (KS & SB) Membership/conferences sponsorship initiative -
    suggestions for how to go forward
      - Global Conferences Sponsorship - Conferences Committee to
        discuss this afternoon and follow up with other chairs/OWASP
        Community
      - DC to discuss membership with KS and how to centralize process
      - KH and SB to get all

<!-- end list -->

  - (SB) Chapter/Conference - tracking requests for Schwag - OCMS?
      - SB to follow up with MB and TZ on how to move forward -
        Regonline, OCMS, or SalesForce

<!-- end list -->

  - (KH) Committee Nominations for Board Member Elections - does not
    mean that committee chairs need to run for board, but good idea for
    them to
      - Deadline for nominations - AppSec EU, then a couple of weeks of
        campaigning, and then vote
      - Questions regarding how someone goes about running - do they
        need to be nominated, or do they add their name and then seek
        nominations?
      - Action item: KS to follow up with Tom Brennan on procedure for
        running for the Board and send chairs /leaders list an email
        with info.

<!-- end list -->

  - (KH) Committee Nominations for 2011 OWASP Awards (categories and
    individuals)
      - Action item: Committee chairs to follow up with their committees
        regarding the Board request
      - This will be revisited on next committee chair meeting.

<!-- end list -->

  - (KH) Comments on the CH OOTM request
      - No comments from Chairs on call

[PDF of 14 March 2011 Committee Chairs Meeting
Minutes](Media:Committee_Chairs_Meeting_Minutes_14Mar2011.pdf "wikilink")