### Roll Call

Monday March 14, 2011 (17:00-18:15 GMT)

Present: Jason Li (Projects), Mark Bristow (Conferences), David Campbell
(Industry, filling in for Joe Bernik), Dan Cornell (Membership), Tin Zaw
(Chapters), Martin Knobloch (Education), Kate Hartmann, Sarah Baso

Absent: Jim Manico (Connections)

### Introduction/Purpose of Meeting (KH)

  - At the Summit it was suggested that the global committee chairs meet
    regularly to discuss organizational issues and cross-committee
    communication.
  - KH set up [wiki discussion
    page](Talk:Chairs:_March_14,_2011 "wikilink") prior to the meeting
    to set forth rules of engagement as well as facilitate pre-meeting
    discussion and set agenda items for the call.

### Follow-up on Items from last Board Meeting (KH)

  - [Points from 3/8/11 Board
    Meeting](http://www.owasp.org/index.php/Minutes_March_8,_2011)
  - The Board voted to approve hiring support staff for the Conferences,
    Chapters, and Membership committees (Industry Committee’s support
    position had already been approved).
      - KH posted a job description which generally defines the roles
        and responsible for the operational support position. This
        position will report primarily to KH (Director of Operations)
        and secondarily to the committee chair. [Job
        Description](http://www.owasp.org/images/6/6b/Operational_Support_for_OWASP_Global_Committee.pdf)
      - SB briefly described what she currently uses to organize her
        time and duties with the GIC – a spreadsheet that states each
        task/deliverable assigned to her as well as the date it was
        assigned, date to be completed, and date actually completed. She
        also has a time sheet listing the actual time she spends each
        week with a brief description of the tasks. The position should
        average 5 hours/week with no more than 10 hrs on any given week.
      - SB already working with GIC and will soon provide support for
        Conferences Committee.
      - Kelly Santalucia, who is currently working PT as operational
        support for the NY/NJ Chapter, is planning on taking the
        operational position with the Membership Committee.
      - KH has some resumes to consider for the Chapters Committee
        position. If the committee has anyone who is interested in the
        position, they should forward on the resumes to KH.
      - Education committee to submit proposal and include in their
        budget if they think they are in need of operational support
        position.

<!-- end list -->

  - Committee budget’s need to be submitted to Kate by March 28 (a week
    before the next Board meeting on April 4), so the Board has time to
    review the budgets before the meeting.
      - Conferences committee submitted and had their budget approved by
        the Board at the Summit.
      - Each committee should prioritize the items on their budget. The
        Board may approve the budget in pieces based on available
        funding and date that the committee needs the funding.
      - Committees should let KH know if they need assistance in putting
        together their budgets.

<!-- end list -->

  - KH put together a [Org
    Chart](http://www.owasp.org/images/3/32/Org_chart.pdf) – please
    review and send her any comments or suggestions.

### Raising Revenue

  - DCampbell presented JB’s idea for a new “corporate membership” --
    Right now in OWASP we have a $5k Corporate Membership and a $50
    individual membership. Maybe we should have something in the middle,
    for example: a $500 corporate employee membership - where there is
    an open disclosure but still a protection of their interests in
    their membership agreement.
  - JL brought up the idea of members having an OWASP email address,
    which would add “legitimacy” to their comments/involvement and also
    shelter members who want to contribute without using a corporate
    email address.
  - DCornell noted that right now some corporate members/sponsors have
    asked not to have their name listed on our wiki, and OWASP has
    honored that.
  - Although OWASP will not revisit the issue of NDAs to protect
    corporate interests, most chairs expressed interest in coming up
    with a model for a tiered membership or a possible tiered conference
    ticket. How do we balance accessibility and revenue?
  - DCornell also noted that new members to the Membership Committee
    have been discussing the need to provide LOWER membership costs,
    especially in asia.
  - Action item: Membership Committee should come up with a possible
    tiered membership approach and then talk to the Industry Committee
    for feedback on what individuals from Industry would like to see.
  - Action item: Raising revenue and tiered membership to be discussed
    again at next meeting

### Conferences Initiatives (MB)

  - Conferences committee is in the process of putting together a global
    sponsorship model, which will be a big ticket item for a company
    that wants to sponsor all the AppSec Conferences
  - The idea of an OWASP “booth in a box” to be used for promotion, one
    for each continent is also on the conference committee radar

### OWASP Points Program (MB)

  - MB rolled out [OWASP Points Program](OWASP_Points "wikilink") at
    Summit as a way to give credit/recognition to individuals involved
    with OWASP on various levels.
  - Action item: Each committee should provide MB with a list of what
    points should be given to people related to that committee’s
    tasks/roles

### Cross-Committee Concerns

  - Currently, Education, Chapters, and Membership Committees all have
    had some involvement in OWASP University Chapters and Academies
    Program. These three committees should group up and discuss who
    should handle what and make sure they are on the same page.

### Committee Missions and Governance

  - Conference Committee has put together a [model for committee
    governance](Global_Conferences_Committee_Governance "wikilink")
  - Is this a generic template that all committees can use (with a few
    modifications) for their own governance rules? Probably need to
    change at least “Removal from the Committee” and “Travel” as these
    are specifically targeted for Conference Committee.
  - KH – There should be clarification at least from a high level
    perspective on what each committee does, so if/when KH gets
    inquiries and emails she can direct them to the appropriate
    committee.
  - Action item: Each committee should review or draft their mission
    statement and role(s) within OWASP to discuss at next committee
    chairs meeting.
  - DCampbell – The GIC has revised their mission and would like to move
    forward in getting it approved.
  - MB – GIC’s new mission seemed to make for further confusion on the
    roles of each committee, especially distinguishing between Industry
    and Connections.
  - KH – we each need to define where we are currently before we can
    decide on new missions and merging committees (including whether the
    industry and connections committees should merge).

### Next Meeting

  - JL – Chaired/ran this meeting, proposes that this role is rotated
    between the committee chairs for each meeting
  - MB – We should schedule meetings 1 time a month roughly around the
    time of the board meeting – any preference on whether it is before
    or after?
  - KH to send out doodle and organize next meeting -- April

### Summary

Post-Meeting Deliverables

1.  Committee budget’s need to be submitted to Kate by March 28 (a week
    before the next Board meeting on April 4), so the Board has time to
    review the budgets before the meeting – budgets should have
    items/funding initiatives prioritized
2.  Review KH’s proposed [org
    chart](http://www.owasp.org/images/3/32/Org_chart.pdf) and send her
    any comments or suggestions
3.  Membership Committee should come up with a possible tiered
    membership approach and then talk to the Industry Committee for
    feedback on what individuals from Industry would like to see.
4.  OWASP Points Program -- Each committee should provide MB with a list
    of what points should be given to people related to that committee’s
    tasks/roles
5.  Currently, Education, Chapters, and Membership Committees should
    group up and discuss who should handle what and make sure they are
    on the same page with regard to OWASP University Chapters and
    Academies Program
6.  Each committee should review or draft their mission statement and
    role(s) within OWASP to discuss at next committee chairs meeting.

Items from Agenda not discussed:

  - Chapter/Conference initiative on Profit Sharing Model
  - New Conference Call Number/Company

[PDF of 14 March 2011 Committee Chairs Meeting
Minutes](Media:Committee_Chairs_Meeting_Minutes_14Mar2011.pdf "wikilink")