## Presentations Etiquette

In order to preserve OWASP non for profit status and open non-commercial
principles it is important that no commercially oriented talks are given
in OWASP events, be it chapter meetings or conferences. Such talks are
not just against OWASP principles, but also blur the line between OWASP
and commercial conference orgenizers, thus diluting the OWASP brand name
and status.

However employee of vendors or service providers are among the top
experts in application security and are welcomed to share their
knowledge at OWASP meetings. Additionally, information about products
and services is valuable to OWASP members.

The goal of this section is to provide guidelines that will enable
chapter leaders to ensure that anyone cane give a talk in an OWASP
chapter meeting, and that non commercially oriented information about
products and services can be provided in the meetings, while avoiding
commercial presentations.

### Talks about products

Generally speaking, presentations at OWASP meetings should not discuss
products. The exceptions are:

  - An event in which multiple competing vendor speak about their
    products prod
  - A talk by a customer about a product. The nature of the relationship
    must disclosed.
  - A talk about an innovative product. An innovative product would be
    any product that does not have direct competitors. As this
    definition is subjective, it is advisable to require submitting the
    presentation before authorizing the talk.

It is advisable that any talk about a product is submitted to the
chapter leader or board before hand for approval. In case of doubt the
chapter leader can consult the [Global Chapter
Committee](Global_Chapter_Committee "wikilink"). In any case the
presentation must be published on the OWASP site after the event so it
can be inspected by anyone.

### Talks by employees

Employee of product vendors and service providers are encouraged to
speak at OWASP meetings, however special care should be taken if the
subject of their talk is close to the field of operation of the company
they represent.

Some important guidelines to follow to ensure non commercial talk in
such a case is:

  - The presentation opportunity is awarded to an individual and not to
    the company he represent and is based on his/her own personal
    qualification. If the person cannot present, the chapter leadership
    is responsible for finding another speaker and not the company the
    speaker works for.
  - The speaker should submit the presentation slides before hand to
    enable the chapter leadership to determine that the presentation is
    of interest to the audience and not commercial in nature.

In any case the presentation must be published on the OWASP site after
the event so it can be inspected by anyone.

### Vendors Blacklist

The global chapter committee will develop a black list of vendors who
abuse OWASP meetings to help leaders avoid them in the future.

## Sponsorship Etiquette

In order to organize events an OWASP chapter often need to raise
sponsors. These sponsors may provide meeting facilities, refreshments
etc. While sponsorship is important, it is important to avoid the
commercialization pitfalls that may accompany them. Specifically the
following is prohibited:

  - Providing the sponsors with a list of people registering or
    attending the event. This might be even illegal in certain countries
    due to privacy laws. The sponsor can collect leads in its booth, for
    example by offering a prize for people filling in details.
  - Providing a lecture for money. Such an arrangement is bound to lead
    to commercial presentations which are against OWASP principles.

So what can sponsors get?

  - Many thanks, and hopefully a very good feeling of helping the
    community.
  - A table top style mini booth where they can put up a "roll up"
    poster or two and hand out your brochures and freebies.This might
    not be possible in certain meeting facilities.
  - Logo on the conference page.

[Category:Chapter Handbook](Category:Chapter_Handbook "wikilink")