## How to Start a Chapter

### Finding an OWASP Chapter

Before applying go an OWASP Chapter, please check the [OWASP
Chapter](:Category:OWASP_Chapter "wikilink") page.

### How do you choose where to start another Chapter?

OWASP Chapters are started by volunteers passionate about helping to
develop a security inclusive culture within their geographic area. When
a potential Leader asks to start a new chapter, we first evaluate the
location to make sure that it is not too close to an existing Chapter.

The evaluation takes the size of the local tech scene and travel time to
existing Chapters into account. While what is considered reasonable
travel times changes with each local area, a handy basic understanding
is that anything under 2 hours travel time between areas will result in
us looking closer and contacting the existing local Chapter Leaders to
ensure that we will not strangle existing Chapters by spreading their
membership too thin.

### Okay, There are no Chapters near me, how do I get started?

Once you are ready to get started, you should read the [Chapter Leader's
Handbook](Chapter_Handbook "wikilink") and create a case using the
[OWASP Chapter Request Form](https://www.tfaforms.com/261541).

The next step is that you will be invited to an orientation to help you
plan your Chapter's beginning.

### I was told my proposed Chapter was too close to an existing Chapter?

If your proposed Chapter is too close to an existing chapter, we will
not be able to create it. However, you will be introduced to all of the
nearest Chapter Leaders so that you can work to volunteer in the most
applicable chapter.

### I want a nation/regional/state/province wide Chapter

OWASP had a history of giving the first chapter in a nation the same of
that country, however, as we are growing rapidly we have discontinued
this and now name Chapters after the local city.

OWASP also maintains a policy of allowing Chapters to start small and
grow or combine to cover larger areas. This means that Chapters cannot
start by covering larger areas unless they show stable growth for their
existing Chapter and show a plan to cover the different areas in their
expanded geographic territory.

## Getting Started

### Choosing your Chapter's Audience

Most chapters choose to aim their content at a combination of security
professionals and developers. Some choose to aim specifically at one or
the other. Some chapters reach out to new AppSec Departments and
managers to offer training to their teams. Many chapters work with their
local universities to train students in AppSec with the aim of either
bringing students directly into AppSec or to ensure the next generation
includes security throughout the entire SDLC and encouraging DevSecOps
mentality.

It is important to note that when starting a chapter it is best tailor
your content to the audience that exists and grow that audience in the
direction that is both best for the Chapter and most interesting to you.

### Your Chapter's wiki page

Your Chapter's wiki is the record of all chapter activities. If you host
a meeting or event that is not on the Chapter it never happened. If your
Chapter grows large enough to need self governance, you must develop
those rules in concert with your membership and post them on the Chapter
wiki page. If this information is not on the Chapter wiki page it cannot
be taken into account should a complaint be made.

### What types of meetings should my Chapter have?

Common meeting types include:

  - Having 1-3 speakers with slide decks, Q\&A, and light networking
    afterwards. This is the most common type of meeting and often
    considered the best for frequent use.

Supplementary meeting types include:

  - Social
      - Often used to supplement other meetings during months when
        another type of meeting is not happening, during a celebration,
        or in conjunction with other meetings

<!-- end list -->

  - Capture the flag and other competitive events
  - Mentoring programs or sessions
  - Hackathon (you can look at helping local not-for-profits or OWASP
    projects)
  - Study groups
  - Training
  - Panels

No matter what type of meetings you host they must be free unless
special arrangements are made ahead of time with the foundation staff.
Many chapters find it helpful to encourage new people by inviting them
to report interesting news bites or seek help from a committee to
perfect presentations.

### My Chapter wants to host an event. How do we get started?

The purpose of chapters is to create a local community that  can support
and evangelize Application Security.  We suggest that the best way to do
this is to focus on growing a thriving community rather than focusing on
hosting a large event in the first year.

That said, you can find all of the information you need about hosting an
event on the [How to Host a
Conference](How_to_Host_a_Conference "wikilink") page.

### I want to grow my Chapter larger, do you have ideas that can help me?

Coming Soon

## Basic Meeting Rules

### How many meetings per year do we need to host?

To be considered active, all chapters must host at least 4 meetings per
year. All of the meeting types listed above, plus many more are
considered meetings in this count. Additionally, one regional or local
event per year will also count as a meeting. In the case of National
Chapters, local meetings also count towards the 4.

The reason we chose 4 meetings per year as the minimum number of
meetings is that it takes this number of meetings to help create regular
attendees who are attached to the Chapter's success. Having fewer
meetings is both a sign of a failing chapter and often a cause of a
failing chapter. Because of this, chapters who host fewer meetings will
be counselled to help them find the best way of addressing their needs.

### So after our 4 meetings can we charge to raise money for funds?

NO. Chapters can only charge for very specific reasons that are based on
the content of the event. You can charge for training events,
conferences, and particularly expensive speakers. If you have any
questions you can send them to the staff using the [Contact
Us](https://www.tfaforms.com/308703) form.

### Why do I need to post information on my wiki?

OWASP is an open organization. All information about your chapter must
be put on the wiki. Furthermore, it is important to remember that for
many people, the OWASP wiki is the first way they will encounter your
Chapter. Most of the requests for chapters are actually for chapters
that currently exist, but have no updates on the wiki.

Furthermore, more people would be interested and willing to devote time
and energy to your Chapter if they can see a history of successful
meetings, events, and governance.

### What do you mean by "Free and Open?"

Being free and open means that meetings and resources must be free, and
open to all who wish to come. Being open means that information about
meetings and other events or resources must accessible. Maximum
accessibility means having all of the information on the wiki early
enough that people can plan to access the meetings.

### What is Vendor Neutrality?

OWASP is vendor neutral, that means nothing we do can appear to support
a particular vendor and nothing vendors do can claim that we support
them.

  - You can ask people to speak about what they do, but they cannot:
      - Present a sales pitch
      - Discuss paid products in a way that is only valuable to their
        customers
      - Brand their talk
      - Request our mailing lists
  - They can speak about
      - Technical challenges and how they solved them
      - Security processes and how they developed them
      - Open source tools and how they used them
      - Learning, Educational, best practices, industry trends, etc.
  - If a speaker would like to offer a business card drawing or other
    method to get emails, it must be clear that participation is
    optional
  - The speaker can have their company’s logo on the first slide, but
    every other slide must be either unbranded or [OWASP
    branded](Marketing/Resources "wikilink").

### My chapter would like to sign this contract/accept this donation, how do I do it?

Chapters are not their own organizations and therefore are not allowed
to accept money on their own.  Funds must be submitted first to the
foundation and will then be set aside for your chapter.

Similarly chapters are not legal entities and cannot sign contracts.
 All contracts must be signed by the foundation.

## Social Media for Chapters

### MeetUp

All new Chapters who wish to have a MeetUp account must do so through
the OWASP MeetUp Pro account. Chapters with existing MeetUp accounts are
also encouraged to join the MeetUp Pro account. All Chapters in Meetup
pro will have their fees covered by the Foundation rather than their own
Chapter funds.

### Great, but how do I get on the OWASP MeetUp Pro account?

**If you already have a meetup account**

Invite the OWASP Foundation join your group.  You will need to
follow [these steps](https://www.meetup.com/help/article/2397734/) to
move the meetup over to the main OWASP Account.  Do not worry, while you
will be replacing yourself as the main organizer, according to our
representative you will still have access to the account as an organizer
and as per OWASP rules the account will still be managed by you as a
chapter asset.

If you have paid for a new subscription immediatly before changing over,
follow these instructions for a refund:

1\. Log into your Meetup account

2\. Go to your subscription page
here: https://www.meetup.com/account/subscription/

3\. Click on 'Cancel subscription'

**If you do not have a meetup account**

Please send the Community Manager a short statement describing who
should come to your events and the city that most of your events will be
taking place in through the [Contact
Us](https://www.tfaforms.com/308703) form.  Examples or the statement
include:  

1.  <sub>The Open Web Application Security Project (OWASP) is a
    not-for-profit, worldwide organization focused on improving the
    security of application software. Our mission is to make application
    security visible, so that people and organizations can make informed
    decisions about true application security risks. Everyone is free to
    participate in OWASP and all of our materials are available under a
    free and open software license.</sub> 
2.  <sub>OWASP is a thriving global community that drives visibility and
    evolution in the safety and security of the world’s software.  We
    hold meetings for like-minded security and development professionals
    to discuss discuss security from a range of perspectives. OWASP is
    not affiliated with any technology company, although we support the
    informed use of commercial security technology. Similar to many
    open-source software projects, OWASP produces many types of
    materials in a collaborative and open way.</sub> 
3.  <sub>This is the meetup headquarters for the Bay Area chapter of the
    Open Web Application Security Project (OWASP). This group is
    dedicated to bringing together the massive amount of Bay Area web
    application security talent and interest in the form of
    presentations, talks, conferences, and any other kind of
    get-together we want to come up with.</sub> <sub>We're looking to
    facilitate all types of meetings between members, from formal
    conferences to little meetups at a Bay Area coffee shop. The key
    advantage of meetup.com is that we can benefit from the shared
    calendar, which is available via iCal, Google Calendar, etc.</sub>
    <sub>We encourage you to get involved in every way possible.
    Recommend events, put together a local meetup at a coffee shop,
    restaurant, or bar, or put together a talk to present at one of
    these venues.</sub> <sub>We look forward to hearing from you and
    seeing you at a local event\!</sub>

### I want to host an event, how do I set up registration?

All registration systems that accept funds must be set up on the OWASP
Foundation's account. Just remember that your chapter is not a legal
entity in its own right, but rather it is more like a department.

### Twitter

Coming Soon

### Facebook

Coming Soon

### Social Media Contract

Coming Soon

## Funding

### What is this Seed Money I learned of?

When a chapter has at least two leaders the OWASP Foundation will give
it $500 seed money.

### I heard that I could get grants?

Please contact our Program Assistant, Dawn Aitken at
dawn.aitken@owasp.org for eligibility.

### How do memberships work for Chapters?

Coming Soon

### I saw some Chapters use sponsorships, what is this?

  -   - Sponsorships started out as a way to for businesses who would
        not afford a corporate membership.  But since some sponsors
        share much more than that.
      - To get a sponsorship you first write a sponsorship document (you
        can use the contact us form to ask Dawn to help on this) and
        then submit it to Kelly through the contact us form.  You can
        also post it on your wiki page and send it to local companies.
      - You can also ask for a in-kind sponsorship.  For example, the
        Ottawa chapter has in-kind sponsorship with a company which
        provides them with a room to meet in, the av equipment to host
        meetings, snacks, and soft drinks. The certainty of having a
        stable location to meet is important to them. (contrast to
        chapters that move about from venue to venue).

### Who writes the sponsorship document?

The chapter writes the sponsorship document, but you can ask for help
from the [Community
Manager](About_The_Open_Web_Application_Security_Project "wikilink") and
the [Membership and Business
Liaison](https://www.owasp.org/index.php/About_The_Open_Web_Application_Security_Project#Membership_and_Business_Liaison:_Kelly_Santalucia)
for help through the [Contact Us](https://www.tfaforms.com/308703) form.

### What can I offer in return for sponsorships?

You can offer a number of things, a logo on the wiki page, thanking them
in a certain number of meetings, allowing a (small) table in a certain
number of meetings, etc.

### Wait, I thought I could not send my own contracts?

You cannot. However, when you are happy with your final draft of the
contract, you can send it to the [Membership and Business
Liaison](https://www.owasp.org/index.php/About_The_Open_Web_Application_Security_Project#Membership_and_Business_Liaison:_Kelly_Santalucia).
They will then send you the official contract to post on your wiki and
send to prospective sponsors.

### Who do I send Sponsorship contracts to?

You can send the Sponsorship contracts to any prospective sponsor, you
can also ask the [Membership and Business
Liaison](https://www.owasp.org/index.php/About_The_Open_Web_Application_Security_Project#Membership_and_Business_Liaison:_Kelly_Santalucia)
to send them to her contact list.

## The Reimbursement Process

### How do I spend money?

  - All funds must go through a reimbursement process.  Here is the
    process for if you have no funds in your account and would like a
    grant:

<!-- end list -->

  - Request funds with details of what you wish and how much it costs.
  - Pay out of pocket
  - Submit for reimbursement

Process for chapters with money in their accounts:

  - Anything that is being spent to facilitate a meeting such as the
    following are considered whitelisted and may go through only the
    reimbursement system as long as the cost is under $500 USD:
      - Food
      - Venue
      - AV
      - Speaker fees
      - Travel fees
  - Anything that costs $500 USD or  more must go through the request
    system

You can find more information at the [OWASP Funding
page](Funding "wikilink")

### What can I spend money on?

You can spend money on anything it takes to run your chapter. Ideas
include:

  - Food
  - Venue
  - AV
  - Speaker fees
  - Travel fees
  - Equipment for the Chapter

### How long does it take to be paid?

Coming Soon

### How does my money come in?

You will be given the opportunity to choose whether to use a wire
transfer or Paypal

## Basics of the Wiki

### How can I get a wiki account?

You can apply for a log in and password for the OWASP Wiki by filling
out the application [here](Special:RequestAccount "wikilink"). Due to a
temporary problem with spam, please use the [Contact
Us](https://www.tfaforms.com/308703) form to let us know once you are
done so that we may expedite your request.

### What should I post on the wiki?

You should post all chapter events as far in advance as possible. You
should also list all chapter social media, calls for volunteers, and
chapter specific governance.

### Why should I post on the wiki?

Posting on the wiki gives anyone interested in your Chapter a central
location to learn about your chapter. This activity is central to making
sure that your Chapter is following the [OWASP
Principles](About_The_Open_Web_Application_Security_Project "wikilink")
of being free and open.

### How do I edit the wiki?

You can find a [Tutorial](Tutorial "wikilink") here.

### How to search the wiki

You can find a [search
tutorial](https://www.owasp.org/index.php/Searching) here, but until the
[Website
Reboot](OWASP_Initiatives_Global_Strategic_Focus/website_project "wikilink")
is complete, it is best to use a search engine.

[Category:Chapter Handbook](Category:Chapter_Handbook "wikilink")