**`Chapter``   ``Meeting``   ``March``   ``29th``   ``2006`**

Atlanta OWASP March Meeting Presents Computer Forensics Introduction
ASP.Net Security Topics

Wednesday March 29th 6:30pm - 8:30pm Digital Insight Corporation Sales
Headquarters 5720 Peachtree Pkwy. Norcross, GA 30092

This meeting is open to public and admission/parking is free.

OWASP Atlanta - our mission as a local chapter of the Open Web
Application Security Project is to help promote awareness and
contributions to web application security.

Who Should Attend - anyone interested in Web Application Security
(management, security architects, developers, etc)

You must RSVP to attend this event. Send email to:
<owasp-atlanta@lists.sourceforge.net> Also, Register to OWASP Atlanta
mailing list at:
<http://lists.sourceforge.net/lists/listinfo/owasp-atlanta/>

Keynote Speakers

David Bendon, CFCE, CISSP, EnCE

David is on the computer forensics team of a Fortune 25 company. Prior
to joining the private sector David was the Chief Forensics Computer
Specialist for the Georgia Bureau of Investigation (GBI), and a
supervisor with their Internet Crimes Against Children Taskforce. While
at the GBI, he worked on such high profile cases as the Hope Scholarship
case, the Derwin Brown homicide case and the hacking cases of a major
university. The has also testified as an expert witness in numerous
jurisdictions throughout Georgia. David is the founder and primary admin
of the largest vendor neutral computer forensics portal called
<http://www.forensicsexams.org>. He is cofounder and VP of the
Cybercrime Summit Group, a non-profit organization that runs the
Cybercrime Summit (an international computer forensics/security
conference held annually in Atlanta, GA. David is also certified as a
CFCE, CISSP and EnCE.

Mohamoud Ibrahim, Senior Developer, The Home Depot

Mohamoud is a Senior Developer for The Home Depot with 12+ years of
software development experience. He has experience developing enterprise
applications & web services in many development environments and
languages including Java and ASP.NET. Mohamoud will discuss developing
secure web services in ASP.NET.

Charles Burke, SCJP, CISSP Senior Consultant InfoSec Integrators

Charles is the Atlanta OWASP Chair. He will discuss new security
features in ASP.Net 2.0.