**Chenxi (OWASP AppSec US â€™08 speaker)**

Chenxi serves Security & Risk professionals. She is a leading expert on
content security, application security, and vulnerability management.
Chenxi leads the effort at Forrester to build the application security
and Web 2.0 security research portfolio.

Chenxi's research builds on her in-depth technical insights and her
years of research experience. Chenxi covers topics such as best
practices for content and application security, emerging threats, and
operational aspects of security deployment. Chenxi has also written
about the China technology market and closely follows the technology
adoption trends in that market.

Prior to Forrester, Chenxi was the chief scientist for KSR, a risk
management service provider startup in Silicon Valley. Previously,
Chenxi was an associate professor at Carnegie Mellon University (CMU).
She was an instrumental faculty member behind the inception of CMU's
Cylab. At CMU, Chenxi led a number of high-profile research projects,
including multimillion dollar projects from the Department of Defense
and National Science Foundation. Chenxi was a consultant to the FTC, HP
Labs, Emerson, Lucent, and a number of venture capital companies.

Chenxi has been frequently quoted in the press, including such media
outlets as The New York Times and Infoworld. An accomplished public
speaker, Chenxi also has delivered keynote and highlighted speeches at
many events, including Chevron's IT conference, Forrester Leadership
Boards events, and other customer events. In her previous role as an
academic, Chenxi delivered many research talks at top academic
conferences and institutions such as Stanford University and the
University of Cambridge.

Chenxi received her Ph.D. in computer science from the University of
Virginia. Her Ph.D. thesis work was awarded an ACM Samuel Alexander
award for excellence in research. She received a B.S. from Lock Haven
University of Pennsylvania.