[<https://www.owasp.org/images/6/6a/OWASP_Cincy.png>](https://www.owasp.org/index.php/cincinnati)

__NOTOC__

Welcome to the Cincinnati U.S.A. OWASP Local Chapter. The chapter lead
is Adam Leisring. The OWASP chapter meetings are free and open to anyone
interested in information security, risk management, data protection and
application security. Chapter meetings are usually held monthly. If you
have never attended a meeting before and you are interested to attend
one in the future, please join the [Mailing
List](https://groups.google.com/a/owasp.org/forum/#!forum/cincinnati-chapter).
The mailing list is also used for sharing application security knowledge
among the local community members. You can also review the [email
archives](https://lists.owasp.org/pipermail/owasp-cincinnati/) to see
what local folks have been talking about.

The board currently includes the following members:

<b>Chapter Leader:</b> [Adam Leisring](mailto:adam.leisring@owasp.org)
<b>Chapter Board Member:</b> Kristen Smith
<b>Chapter Board Member:</b> Lee Epling
If you are interested in presenting at one of the chapter meetings
please send an abstract and bio to the [chapter chair (Adam
Leisring)](mailto:adam.leisring@owasp.org). Prior to participating,
please review the [Chapter
Rules](https://www.owasp.org/index.php/Chapter_Rules).

## October 2019 Meeting

### The Softer Side of Security

**Discussion Abstract:** Having technical skills to help solve problems
is a necessity, but what about navigating the world of execution?
Ultimately we depend on many others to achieve our objectives. As
skilled professionals we need to hone more than just our technical
skills. Join us in a discussion that explores what a well-rounded
security professional needs in order to build an effective application
security program.

**Speaker Biography**: Allison Shubert has over 19 years experience in
information technology, application security architecture, and risk
management. She combines her development background and risk management
skills to assists businesses in managing the changing landscape of cyber
security. She hold a master’s of science degree in information assurance
and the CISSP and the CSSLP certifications. She regularly serves as a
SME to ISC@ for the exam creation. She has also served on the paper
selection committee for the OWASP global conferences for the last three
years.

**Presentation:**
<https://www.owasp.org/images/e/ed/Allison-Shubert_The-Softer-Side-of-Security.pdf>

## August 2019 Meeting

### Server Side Request Forgery (SSRF) Attack Scenario and Defense Options

**When**: August 28th, 2019. 11:30 AM

**Where**: Paycor, 4811 Montgomery Road, Norwood, Ohio 45212

**Discussion Abstract**: SSRF - Attack scenario and Defense options A
relatively new attack in today's threat landscape is the Server Side
Request Forgery, or SSRF. Theorized by many to have been the initial
attack vector in the recent Capital One breach, this attack could
provide external "command proxy" type access to an interested threat
actor in a difficult to mitigate fashion. During this session, CBTS will
talk about the typical flow of an SSRF attack, execute a demo attack
against a target, and discuss possible defense scenarios that can be
used to detect and/or protect an organization from this potential
exposure.

**Speaker Biography**:

Nate Fair - Currently an information security consultant for CBTS
Security Services Team. Our team performs security services for 5-man
shops and Fortune 5's. Services performed include network and wireless
penetration testing, vulnerability assessments, security architecture
and program reviews, web application testing, and physical security
assessments. Nate also teaches penetration testing at the University of
Cincinnati and is part of the team behind BSides Cincinnati, helping
create it's CTF competition.

Ryan Hamrick - While gaining experience in a number of business
verticals including manufacturing, finance/banking, and technology
consultancy, Ryan Hamrick has performed at a high level in the security
industry for the past 11 years. In an IT career spanning 20+ years, Ryan
has gained expertise in wide variety of areas spanning software
engineering, web application design and deployment, desktop support,
security incident response, and security engineering. He is currently
applying the knowledge gained through these experiences in order to
provide expert level security consulting services for CBTS customers
focusing on security policy and procedure design, holistic security
architecture review, web application assessments, external and internal
penetration testing and vulnerability assessments, social engineering
assessments, and cloud security assessments.

**Link to Presentation**: <https://www.owasp.org/images/6/65/SSRF.pdf>

## June 2019 Meeting

### Managing Open Source Library Risk

**Discussion Abstract:** The rate at which modern applications are
growing is beyond comprehension. To aid faster development, a major
chunk of the code being developed comprises of open source components,
making it difficult to be managed by developers/development teams alone.

The use of these components can inadvertently bring in security and
compliance risks to the product and company. This presentation will
focus on the importance of managing the open source components and risks
associated with them.

**Speaker Biography:** Dhanashree is an Application security Analyst
with Paycor Inc. Apart from Pentesting Web and mobile applications, her
focus areas include working with development teams to help build
security in the SDLC. She has formerly worked as a Security consultant
and Team lead with Security services providing companies in Telecom and
Healthcare domains.

**Presentation**:
<https://www.owasp.org/images/0/0c/Managing_Open_Source_Library_Risks.pdf>

## March 2019 Meeting

### Application Security in a DevOps World

  - <b>When: March, 13th - 11:30 PM to 12:30 PM (ET)</b>
  - <b>Location</b>

`   Paycor`
`   4811 Montgomery Rd`
`   Cincinnati, OH 45212`

  - <b>Register by RSVP here:
    <https://www.eventbrite.com/e/cincy-owasp-mach-meeting-application-security-in-a-devops-world-tickets-56804071507>
    </b>

Hello OWASP Cincinnati\! The spring thaw is nearly here, and in efforts
to expedite the thaw let's discuss the very hot topic of AppSec in
DevOps. Join us for an insightful presentation on how security
requirements can still be met in this brave new DevOps world in a
discussion led by Ed Arnold, Security Solution Architect with Qualys.

<b>Agenda:</b>

  - Speaker and topic introduction
  - Presentation - "Application Security in a DevOps World" by Ed Arnold
  - Roundtable Discussion Opportunity
  - Housekeeping and Meeting Closure

<b>Discussion Abstract:</b> Jenkins, Travis CI, Bamboo, Docker, AWS,
API, Agile, CI/CD are the new mainstream vocabulary of Developers who
want more control over their processes, and businesses that increasingly
prioritize time-to-market. After working for years to get into
developers' workflows, how can security practitioners keep pace with
these "new" terms and the technology behind them? This presentation will
discuss the challenges that may cause some security teams to give up in
this new paradigm, and solutions to help ensure they remain in the game.

<b>Biography:</b>

Ed Arnold is a Security Solution Architect with Qualys, focusing on web
application scanning and malware detection. He formerly held positions
of Senior Security Engineer, Technical Architect and Principal Security
Consultant over a twelve-year security career. Ed is focused on
automating security testing and enabling developers to proactively
address security issues.

<b>Presentation:</b> Coming Soon

## January 2019 Meeting

### Where Does It Hurt? - The Anatomy of a Data Breach

  - <b>When: January 24, 2019 11:30 PM to 1:00 PM (ET)</b>
  - <b>Location</b>

`   Paycor`
`   4811 Montgomery Rd`
`   Cincinnati, OH 45212`

  - <b>Register by RSVP here:
    <https://www.eventbrite.com/e/cincinnati-owasp-january-meeting-tickets-54350858882>
    </b>

Happy 2019 OWASP Cincinnati\! Let's kick off the new year with a
presentation pertaining to the anatomy of a data breach with specific
focus on state-level notification requirements as well as broader trends
in the realm of requirements in data security and privacy law. Pizza
will be provided.

<b>Agenda:</b>

  - Speaker Introduction, Topic Overview, and OWASP Relevancy
  - Presentation - "Where Does It Hurt? - The Anatomy of a Data Breach"
    by Zach Briggs
  - Roundtable Discussion Opportunity
  - Housekeeping and Meeting Closure

<b>Discussion Abstract:</b> Awareness is not understanding. In the age
of Google and WebMD, people are aware of a lot, but they don’t
understand nearly as much. Case in point - all that causes sickness is
not cancer, not all who lose data have had a breach.
My goal in this presentation is to challenge your understanding of what
makes up a data breach by explaining its full anatomy so that you can
diagnose where it hurts and how to fix it or if you are even sick at
all. All while sharing some of life’s best medicine (laughter) along the
way.

<b>Biography:</b>

Zach Briggs is Corporate Compliance Counsel at Paycor, a human capital
management SaaS company based in Cincinnati. He has a management degree
from Purdue University and his Juris Doctor from Northern Kentucky
University. Zach enjoys seeing how things work and making them work
better. He is responsible for driving compliance initiatives across
Paycor’s entire organization, but has a special place in his heart for
his friends in InfoSec.

<https://www.linkedin.com/in/zacharybriggs/>

<b>Presentation:</b> [OWASP - Anatomy of a Data
Breach](https://www.owasp.org/images/6/6b/OWASP_-_Where_Does_It_Hurt_-_The_Anatomy_of_a_Data_Breach.pptx)

<b>Meeting Sponsor:</b> [Paycor](https://www.paycor.com)

## November 2018 Meeting

### AppSec Program: Real World Examples

  - <b>When: November 13, 2018 12:00 PM to 1:30 PM (ET)</b>
  - <b>Location</b>

`   Paycor`
`   4811 Montgomery Rd`
`   Cincinnati, OH 45212`

  - <b>Register by RSVP here:
    <https://www.eventbrite.com/e/owasp-cincinnati-november-2018-registration-51705278881>

Who: Bill Young - Cincinnati Childrens Hospital

Bio: Bill Young is Senior Security Analyst at Cincinnati Children’s
Hospital.  He’s held various roles over the course of his 15-year IT
career including desktop support technician, system administrator,
virtual desktop administrator and web application developer.   He
currently works in security, building an application security program
and doing web application penetration testing. Outside of work he is
married and has 5 children.  He’s a proud member of the Knights of
Columbus catholic charity organization and a big sports fan.

Abstract: Industry report, such as the Verizon Data Breach Investigation
Report, consistently rank web applications one of the top attack
patterns that result in data breaches.  This is increasingly reinforced
as web application breaches from Yahoo, Equifax, Facebook and Google+
have all made the main stream media over the last two years.

The de facto security controls of the past decade (IPS/IDS, network
firewalls, web application firewalls) offer limited mitigation for
on-premise applications and even less for cloud-based applications.  To
properly protect applications, the responsibility for securing them must
be shared amongst the security, development and operations teams and
security must be integrated in all phases of the development lifecycle.

In this talk, I will share our experience creating and expanding an
application security program that aims to do just that.  I will share
the approaches we took (good, bad and ugly) to creating our long-term
vision and goals, measuring our progress, engaging the development,
operations and management teams, and creating security testing
processes.

<b>Presentation:</b> A copy of the presentation can be found
[here](https://www.owasp.org/index.php/File:OWASP_TOP_TEN_-_2017_Cincinnati.pdf)

<b>Meeting Sponsor:</b> [TekSystems](https://www.teksystems.com)

## October 2018 Meeting

### SecureWorld Expo Cincinnati Meetup

  - <b>When: Octover 17, 2018 8:00 AM to 4:30 PM (ET)</b>
  - <b>Location</b>

Sharonville Convention Center 11355 Chester Rd Cincinnati, OH 45246

  - <b>Register at
    <https://secureworld.ungerboeck.com/prod/emc00/PublicSignIn.aspx?&SessionID=fa7fh5fg2ej8fb5fg2&Lang=>

Join us at SecureWorld Expo Cincinnati 2018\! We will have a booth set
up in the exhibation hall and will be talking all things security
especially AppSec\! Additionally Andy Willingham will be moderating a
panel discussion on Phishing and Social Engineering. Come and learn some
new tricks and freshen up on the old ones. We will have a meet up at the
end of the event to discuss our November meeting and looking forward to
2019.

## June 2018 Meeting

### OWASP Top 10 2017 Release

  - <b>When: June 12, 2018 12:00 PM to 1:30 PM (ET)</b>
  - <b>Location</b>

`   Paycor`
`   4811 Montgomery Rd`
`   Cincinnati, OH 45212`

  - <b>Register by RSVP here:
    <https://www.eventbrite.com/e/owasp-cincinnati-june-2018-tickets-46674750435>

Who: Andy Willingham - OWASP

Abstract: 2017 saw the release of a new version of the OWASP Top 10 and
there are lots of changes that we need to be aware of. We will look at
the current Top 10 and talk about what’s new, what’s changed, and why we
need to be aware.

Bio: Andy is the OWASP CIncinnati Chapter Lead and works for a local
Health Care Provider helping them secure their environment and provide
world class healthcare to the region. He has been in the field of
technology for over 20 years and has been in information security over
15 years.

<b>Presentation:</b> Coming Soon\!

<b>Meeting Sponsor:</b> [Signal
Sciences](https://www.signalsciences.com)

## February 2018 Meeting

### Credential Stuffing

  - <b>When: Feb 13, 2018 12:00 PM to 1:30 PM (ET)</b>
  - <b>Location</b>

`   Paycor`
`   4811 Montgomery Rd`
`   Cincinnati, OH 45212`

  - <b>Register by RSVP here:
    <https://www.eventbrite.com/e/owasp-cincinnati-february-2018-tickets-42786752328>

Who: Adam Leisring - Paycor

Abstract: Just last year, over three billion credentials were reported
stolen from various sources in both small and large amounts. Credential
theft and “stuffing” is a real and present threat to all organizations
and the risk of account takeover, particularly for privileged accounts,
is substantial. In this presentation, we’ll take a journey through the
various stages of credential stuffing from theft, to sale, to actual
stuffing on sites. Next, we’ll review some tested controls that you can
put in place to either detect or prevent this threat against your
enterprise.

Bio: Adam is the Director of Information Security for Paycor, one of the
largest independently held Human Capital Management companies in
America. He oversees Information Security for Paycor’s 1400 associates
as well as Paycor’s 30,000 clients of their award-winning Software as a
Service product. In past positions, he has served in leadership roles
including Technical Services and Operations, Enterprise Architecture and
Software Engineering. Adam holds CISSP and CISM certifications as well
as a Master’s Certificate in Corporate Information Security. Adam is a
volunteer in ISC(2)’s Safe and Secure Online program which spreads
security awareness to children at local schools.

## November 2017 Meeting

### GDPR: What is it and Why do I care?

When: Nov 4, 2017 12:00 PM to 1:30 PM (ET)

  - <b>Location</b>

`   Paycor`
`   4811 Montgomery Rd`
`   Cincinnati, OH 45212`

  - <b>Register by RSVP here:
    </b><https://www.eventbrite.com/e/owasp-cincinnati-april-2017-tickets-33729747583>
  - <b>Who: </b> Rohit Sethi - Security Compass

<!-- end list -->

  - <b>Abstract:</b> This is an open discussion around GDPR to help all
    of us understand it and learn some things that we need to focus on
    as we get ready to comply.

## October 2017 Events

### NKU CyberSecurity Symposium

  - <b>When: Oct 13, 2017 8:30 AM to 4:00 PM (ET)</b>
  - <b>Location</b>

`   Northern Kentucky University`
`   Student Union Center`

  - <b>Details:</b> Join us at the 10th Annual CyberSecurity Symposium.
    This promises to be a full day of learning and networking. We will
    have a booth setup in the Exhibitors area so stop by and say "Hi".
    Additionally Andy Willingham will be speaking on SecDevOps.

### SecureWorld Expo Cincinnati

  - <b>When: Oct 24, 2017 8:30 AM to 4:00 PM (ET)</b>
  - <b>Location</b>

`   Sharonville Convention Center`
`   11355 Chester Rd Sharonville, Oh 45246`

  - <b>Details:</b> Join us at the 3rd Annual SecureWorld Expo. This
    promises to be a full day of learning and networking. We will have a
    booth setup in the Exhibitors area so stop by and say "Hi".
    Additionally Andy Willingham will be speaking on Making the most of
    your relationship with your Audit teams.

## May 2017 Event

### Interface Cincinnati Conference

  - <b>When: May 24, 2017 8:30 AM to 4:45 PM (ET)</b>
  - <b>Location</b>

`   Duke Energy Convention Center`
`   Junior Ballroom`
`   525 Elm St,`
`   Cincinnati, OH 45202`

  - <b>Register by RSVP here: </b><http://interfacetour.com/register/>

<!-- end list -->

  - <b>Details:</b> Join us as we welcome the Interface Tour to
    Cincinnati. This promises to be a full day of learning and
    networking. We will have a booth setup in the Exhibitors area so
    stop by and say "Hi". We will also be participating in a panel
    discussion or two. Keynote Speaker will be Brian Keys VP of
    Technology for the Cincinnati Reds. You can earn 6.5 continuing
    education credits and there is NO COST to attend\!

## April 2017 Meeting

### Application Security Management- How Billion Dollar Enterprises Manage Application Security at Scale

  - <b>When: April 27, 2017 12:00 PM to 1:30 PM (ET)</b>
  - <b>Location</b>

`   Paycor`
`   4811 Montgomery Rd`
`   Cincinnati, OH 45212`

  - <b>Register by RSVP here:
    </b><https://www.eventbrite.com/e/owasp-cincinnati-april-2017-tickets-33729747583>
  - <b>Who: </b> Rohit Sethi - Security Compass

<!-- end list -->

  - <b>Abstract:</b> Security Compass recently completed a research
    study by surveying companies across multiple industries with the
    goal of discovering how large, complex organizations address
    application security at scale. The majority of respondents surveyed
    were multinational organizations who reported annual earnings
    greater than $1 billion USD. Through this new research study, we
    have gleamed novel insights on how large organizations manage
    application security at scale. Through this presentation, we will
    reveal aggregated insights, industry trends, and best practices that
    illuminate how organizations are addressing application security at
    scale, so that you may apply and compare these learnings to the
    state of application security at your own organization.

<!-- end list -->

  - <b>Speaker Bio:</b> Rohit Sethi is a specialist in software security
    requirements. He has helped improve software security at some of the
    world's most security-sensitive organizations in financial services,
    software, e-commerce, healthcare, telecom and other industries.
    Rohit has built and taught courses on Secure J2EE development. He
    also created the OWASP Design Patterns Security Analysis project. In
    his current role, Rohit manages the SD Elements team at Security
    Compass . Previously, Rohit managed the consulting practice at
    Security Compass. Mr. Sethi has appeared as a security expert on
    television outlets as such as Bloomberg, CNBC, FoxNews, CBC, CTV and
    BNN. Rohit has spoken at numerous industry conferences,such as
    FS-ISAC, RSA, OWASP, Secure Development Conference, Shmoocon, CSI
    National, Sec Tor, CFI-CIRT, and many others. He has been quoted
    and/or written articles on several websites such as CNN.com, the
    Huffington Post, InfoQ, and Dr. Dobb's Journal.

<b>Presentation:<b> A copy of the presentation can be found
[here](https://www.owasp.org/images/7/76/2017.04_OWASP_Cincinnati_Presentation_v2.pptx)

`    `<b>`Meeting Sponsor:`</b>` `[<https://www.owasp.org/images/9/9e/Security_Compass_Logo.png>](https://www.securitycompass.com)

## March 2017 Meeting

### OWASP 2017

  - <b>When: March 28, 2017 12:00 PM to 1:30 PM (ET)</b>
  - <b>Location</b>

`   Paycor`
`   4811 Montgomery Rd`
`   Cincinnati, OH 45212`

  - <b>Register by RSVP here:
    </b><https://www.eventbrite.com/e/owasp-march-2017-tickets-33054028489>
  - <b>Who: </b> Allison Shubert and Andy Willingham

<!-- end list -->

  - <b>Abstract:</b> Join us for our 2017 Kick-off meeting. We will
    discuss the recent RSA Conference, SecDevOps, and enjoy a chance to
    network with others while eating Pizza. What could be better?

<!-- end list -->

  - <b>Speaker Bio:</b>

<!-- end list -->

  - <b>Presentation:</b> A copy of the presentation can be found
    [here](https://www.owasp.org/index.php/File:SecDevOps_OWASP_Presentation.pptx)

<b>Meeting Sponsor</b>
[<https://www.owasp.org/images/6/6a/OWASP_Cincy.png>](https://www.owasp.org/index.php/cincinnati)

# 2016 Presentations

## October 2016 Meeting

### Protecting your applications using RASP

  - <b>When: October 25, 2015 12:00 PM to 1:30 PM (ET)</b>
  - <b>Location</b>

`   TekSystems`
`   3825 Edwards Rd`
`   Cincinnati, OH 45209`

  - <b>Register by RSVP here:
    </b><https://www.eventbrite.com/e/october-owasp-cincinnati-tickets-28576759858>
  - <b>Who: </b> Allison Shubert of Citi

<!-- end list -->

  - <b>Abstract:</b> Allison will be discussing the pros and cons of
    using RASP (runtime application self-protection) in your application
    lifecycle to help ease some of the pain associated with App Sec and
    SDLC..

<!-- end list -->

  - <b>Speaker Bio:</b>

Allison Shubert

`   Meeting Sponsorship Provided by `[<https://www.teksystems.com/-/media/teksystems_com/Images/Logos/TEKsystems_logotype_RGB.png>](https://www.teksystems.com)

## April 2016 Meeting

### OWASP 101 & The OWASP Top 10

  - <b>When: April 12, 2016 12:00 PM to 1:30 PM (ET)</b>
  - <b>Location</b>

`   The Christ Hospital`
`   2139 Auburn Ave`
`   Cincinnati, OH 45219`

  - <b>Register by RSVP here:
    </b><https://www.eventbrite.com/e/cincinnati-owasp-april-2016-tickets-24345851096>

<!-- end list -->

  - <b>Who: </b> Allison Shubert and Andy Willingham

<!-- end list -->

  - <b>Abstract:</b> OWASP can do for you so we are going to highlight
    some of the reasons that you should be involved and how OWASP can
    help you be a better security practitioner and/or software
    developer. Also we will discuss how the OWASP Top 10 impacts your
    day to day life.

`   Meeting Sponsorship Provided by OWASP`

# 2015 Presentations

## November 2015 Meeting

### PCI Risk Assessment - A method to reduce breaches

  - <b>When: November 18, 2014 12:00 PM to 1:30 PM (ET)</b>
  - <b>Location</b>

`   Citi`
`   9997 Carver Rd`
`   Blue Ash, OH 45242`

  - <b>Register by RSVP here:
    </b><https://www.eventbrite.com/e/november-cincinnati-owasp-chapter-meeting-tickets-13987140915>
  - <b>Who: </b> Dharshan Shanthamurthy of [SISA Information
    Security](http://www.sisainfosec.com/)

<!-- end list -->

  - <b>Abstract:</b> The recent breaches at PCI compliant organizations
    have raised questions on additional security measures that
    organizations can take to improve their security posture. Breaches
    are becoming part of boardroom discussions and it’s obvious that
    information security managers are in the spotlight to come out with
    answers on what they are doing to improve their security posture.
    This session aims to provide meaningful guidance on how PCI DSS Risk
    Assessment should be conducted, so that organizations can safeguard
    proactively themselves rather than waiting for a breach to happen.

:\*What is a formal risk assessment

:\*How to plan a formal risk assessment for PCI DSS Compliance

:\*Common misconceptions in PCI Risk Assessment

:\*How can a formal PCI Risk assessment help you in securing your
organization

:\*Why PCI DSS Risk Assessment should be treated as a continuous
business process for your organization

  - <b>Speaker Bio:</b>

<!-- end list -->

  -
    Dharshan Shantamurthy is the founder and CEO of SISA Information
    Security – a global leader of PCI Certification and Risk Assessment.
    Dharshan was one of the first PCI Qualified Security Assessors of
    the PCI Standards Body. Lately he was the leader of the PCI DSS
    Special Interest Group that authored the PCI DSS Risk Assessment
    Guidelines at the PCI Security Standards Council.

<!-- end list -->

  -
    Dharshan has also been a key security resource for various
    professional bodies globally – Software Engineering Institute,
    Carnegie Mellon; ISACA Chapters and International, E-Crime, Payment
    Card Industry, Payment Brands such as VISA/MasterCard, Microsoft. He
    has authored a certification program named as CPISI, a PCI
    implementation workshop for security professionals working in
    payment card industry.

<!-- end list -->

  -
    Dharshan had chaired the PCI Council’s Special Interest Group (SIG)
    for Risk Assessment in 2012 and also gave the update on SIG at the
    PCI SSC community meeting in Orlando, Florida. He is an invited
    speaker at various conferences including Microsoft CIO Summit, VISA
    Seminars, ISACA Global Security Summit and ISACA-TACS 2011
    Conference.

`   Meeting Sponsor `[<https://sisainfosec.com/assets/images/logo.png>](https://www.sisainfosec.com)

## October 2015 Meeting

### Application Threat Modeling

  - <b>When: October 13, 2015 12:00 PM to 1:30 PM (ET)</b>
  - <b>Location</b>

`   Citi`
`   9997 Carver Rd`
`   Blue Ash, OH 45242`

  - <b>Register by RSVP here:
    </b><https://www.eventbrite.com/e/cincinnati-owasp-sept-2015-tickets-18185846356>

<!-- end list -->

  - <b>Who: </b> Allison Shubert of Citi

<!-- end list -->

  - <b>Abstract:</b> Threat Modeling is an important tool in your
    application security toolbox. How do you do it and what value does
    it provide? Allison will shed light on this for us.

<!-- end list -->

  - <b>Speaker Bio:</b>

Allison Shubert

`   Meeting Sponsorship Provided by OWASP`

## September 2015 Meeting

### Security Code Review

  - <b>When: September 2, 2015 12:00 PM to 1:30 PM (ET)</b>
  - <b>Location</b>

`   Citi`
`   9997 Carver Rd`
`   Blue Ash, OH 45242`

  - <b>Register by RSVP here:
    </b><https://www.eventbrite.com/e/cincinnati-owasp-sept-2015-tickets-18185846356>

<!-- end list -->

  - <b>Who: </b> Kevin Glavin of Cigital

<!-- end list -->

  - <b>Abstract:</b> A Radical Departure from everything you know and
    love \[to hate\] about code review. How can you change the way you
    apply source code review using modern and freely available tools in
    order to provide high-quality review. What, specifically, can you do
    to avoid the critical flaws we commonly find? How do you scale the
    effort up to an Enterprise worth of applications? … And down to the
    space in which a 2 week sprint lives? … Apply it to continuous
    deployment?

<!-- end list -->

  - <b>Speaker Bio:</b>

Kevin Glavin is a Senior Consultant who has over 10 years of experience
in a variety of roles including Lead Developer, Software Assurance
Specialist, and Software Security Analyst. Kevin has worked with a
number of Fortune 250 and multi-national companies, as well as
government agencies. As a consultant at Cigital, he has led secure code
review, penetration testing (hardware, software, and network), and
architectural risk analysis of systems built from a few thousand lines
of code to systems containing tens of millions of lines of code. He
specializes in integrating security testing techniques into existing
tools and SDLC methodologies, and leveraging DevOps practices for
consistency and agility.

`   Meeting Sponsorship Provided by `[<https://www.owasp.org/images/a/ad/Cigital-Logo-FullColorTagline-01-3.png>](https://www.cigital.com)

# 2014 Presentations

## June Meeting

### Building a Scalable Threat Modeling Practice in 7 Easy Steps

  - <b>Who: </b> Anurag "Archie" Agarwal of
    [MyAppSecurity](http://myappsecurity.com/)

<!-- end list -->

  - <b>Abstract:</b> Join us at 12:00 PM for lunch (Sponsored by
    MyAppSecurity) and a lively discussion around threat modeling and
    how to best secure your applications. Come prepared with your
    questions, thoughts, and ideas.

<!-- end list -->

  - <b>Speaker Bio:</b> Archie is a Threat Modeling Guru with lots of
    experience in designing and implementing threat models and making
    them give you a real world view of how your apps measure up.

`   Meeting Sponsor `[`MyAppSecurity`](http://myappsecurity.com/)

## March Meeting

### OWASP Mobile Top Ten 2014 - The New "Lack of Binary Protection" Category

#### Mobile Applications and All of the Bad things that can happen to your Information and IP Inside them

  - <b>Who: </b> Matt Clemens, Security Solutions Architect for [Arxan
    Technologies](http://www.arxan.com/)

<!-- end list -->

  - <b>Abstract:</b>

<!-- end list -->

  -
    Recently, there has been a new addition to the OWASP Mobile Top Ten.
    At AppSec California, OWASP debuted the 2014 list and briefly
    highlighted examples of threats in the new M10 category. In my talk,
    I discuss the new category in much more depth. I educate the
    audience about the prevalence of binary risks in both iPhone and
    Android mobile apps. I highlight mobile app risks that relate to
    this new category and how to leverage particular OWASP Projects for
    the solution. By the end of this talk, you will have a solid
    understanding of binary risk and how to begin thinking about
    solutions to this category.

<!-- end list -->

  - <b>Speaker Bio:</b> Matt Clemens is a Security Solutions Architect
    for [Arxan Technologies](http://www.arxan.com/), focusing on
    application security. Before joining Arxan in 2013 Matt spent 20
    years in a variety of roles in the semiconductor and embedded
    processor industries.

`   Meeting Sponsor `![`Arxan_sl.png`](Arxan_sl.png "Arxan_sl.png")

# 2013 Presentations

## November Meeting

### Developing a Software Security Assurance Program

  - <b>Who: </b> Kabir Mulchandani, Managing Principal at
    [Cigital](http://www.cigital.com/)

<!-- end list -->

  - <b>Abstract:</b>

<!-- end list -->

  -
    For decades technology has been an obvious key to competitive
    advantage across nearly every industry. Whether organizations
    develop new technology in-house or leverage third-party solutions,
    software vulnerabilities provide another attack vector for cyber
    criminals. Organizations are reacting by developing a software
    security initiative to manage the risks related to software
    vulnerabilities.

<!-- end list -->

  -
    This session will review some of the latest emerging industry
    practices in managing software security risks, including application
    penetration testing, static code analysis, software security
    testing, vendor assessments, security architecture reviews and
    developer training.

<!-- end list -->

  - <b>Speaker Bio:</b> Kabir Mulchandani is a Managing Principal at
    [Cigital](http://www.cigital.com/). He has more than 17 years of
    experience in information security and management consulting. Kabir
    has expertise in developing and managing information security risk
    management, vendor management, software security assurance and
    Governance, Risk and Control (GRC) programs. Kabir leads Cigital’s
    Mid-Atlantic practice and focuses on enhancing the efficiency and
    effectiveness of software security programs.

`   Meeting Sponsor `![`Cigital_OWASP.GIF`](Cigital_OWASP.GIF
"Cigital_OWASP.GIF")

## June Meeting

### 2013 Verizon Data Breach Investigations Report (VDBIR)

  - <b>Who: </b> Allison Schubert, Andy Willingham and Blaine Wilson of
    [Citigroup](http://www.citigroup.com/citi/)

<!-- end list -->

  - <b>Abstract:</b> The topic of the meeting will be a discussion of
    the [2013 Verizon Data Breach Investigations Report
    (VDBIR)](http://www.verizonenterprise.com/DBIR/2013/). Allison,
    Andy, and Blaine will be discussing the report and how we see it
    playing out in the lives of those of us who are tasked with
    protecting our companies systems and applications.

# 2012 Presentations

## October Meeting

### Is There An End to Testing Ourselves Secure?

  - <b>Who: </b> Rohit Sethi, Vice President, Product Development, [SD
    Elements](http://www.sdelements.com/)

<!-- end list -->

  - <b>Abstract:</b>

<!-- end list -->

  -
    Despite years of research on best practices to integrate security
    into the early phases of the SDLC, most organizations rely on static
    analysis, dynamic analysis, and penetration testing as their primary
    means of eliminating vulnerabilities. This approach leads to
    vulnerabilities discovered late in the development process, thereby
    either cause project delays or risk acceptance. Neither option is
    particularly appealing.

<!-- end list -->

  -
    This talk is a an open discussion with the local chapter about if
    there are scalable, measurable approaches that actually work in the
    real world to address security early into the SDLC, with
    consideration for how agile development impacts effectiveness.
    Points of discussion include:
      - Is static analysis sufficient?
      - Developer awareness training
      - Threat modeling / architecture analysis
      - Secure requirements
      - Considerations for procured applications

<!-- end list -->

  - <b>Speaker Bio:</b> Rohit Sethi is a specialist in building security
    controls into the software development life cycle (SDLC). Rohit is a
    SANS course developer and instructor on Secure J2EE development. He
    has spoken and taught at FS-ISAC, RSA, OWASP, Shmoocon, CSI
    National, Sec Tor, Infosecurity New York and Toronto, TASK, the
    ISC2's Secure Leadership series conferences, and many others. Mr.
    Sethi has written articles for Dr. Dobb's Journal, TechTarget,
    Security Focus and the Web Application Security Consortium (WASC),
    and he has been quoted as an expert in application security for
    ITWorldCanada and Computer World. He also leads the OWASP Design
    Patterns Security Analysis project.

`  Meeting Sponsor `[`SD``   ``Elements`](http://www.sdelements.com/)

## October Joint ISSA and OWASP Meeting

### The Unfortunate Reality of Insecure Libraries

  - <b>Who: </b> Jeff Williams CEO & Co-Founder, [Aspect
    Security](https://www.aspectsecurity.com/)

<!-- end list -->

  - <b>Abstract:</b> Today, 80% of the code in applications comes from
    libraries and frameworks. The risk of vulnerabilities in these
    components is widely ignored and underappreciated. In partnership
    with Sonatype, our researchers analyzed over 113 million downloads
    by more than 60,000 commercial, government and non-profit
    organizations. We studied the 31 most popular Java frameworks and
    security libraries downloaded from the Central Repository and
    discovered that 26% of these have known vulnerabilities. Every
    organization should be concerned about the security of the
    components that they use and trust to run their business.

<!-- end list -->

  - <b>Speaker Bio:</b> As a pioneer in the software development and
    security field, Jeff Williams is one of the world's foremost experts
    on application security. Williams is the co-founder and CEO of
    Aspect Security, a consulting firm focused exclusively on
    application security that supports a worldwide clientele with
    critical applications in the government, defense, financial,
    healthcare, services and retail sectors. Williams and his team at
    Aspect Security are founding members of the Open Web Application
    Security Project (OWASP), through which Williams has made industry
    contributions including: the OWASP Top Ten, Enterprise Security API
    (ESAPI), Application Security Verification Standard (ASVS), Risk
    Rating Methodology and WebGoat. Williams holds advanced degrees in
    psychology, computer science and human factors, and graduated cum
    laude from Georgetown Law.

## August Meeting

### WebScarab Tutorial and Demonstration

  - <b>Who: </b> Blaine Wilson, Technical Security Officer,
    [Citigroup](http://www.citigroup.com/citi/)

<!-- end list -->

  - <b>Abstract:</b> Join us for our August meeting. This month Blaine
    Wilson will entertain and educate us with a tutorial and
    demonstration of how to use WebScarab to test and protect your web
    sites and apps. We will also get a quick Black Hat/DefCon recap from
    Allison Shubert.

<!-- end list -->

  - <b>Speaker Bio:</b> Blaine is a technical security officer for
    Citigroup and has several years experience as a application security
    guru and as a programmer so he is uniquely qualified to share his
    experiences and knowledge with us.

## July Meeting

### Addressing Threats to the Nation's Cybersecurity

  - <b>Who: </b> Intelligence Analyst Anne Hanko of the
    [FBI](https://www.fbi.gov/)

## June Meeting

### Security is Dead. Love Live Rugged DevOps: IT at Ludicrous Speed

  - <b>Who: </b> Joshua Corman of [Akamai
    Technologies](http://www.akamai.com/)

<!-- end list -->

  - <b>Abstract:</b> Cloud IT velocity is breathtaking: while most IT
    struggle with monthly releases, agile IT businesses routinely
    conjure thousands of AWS servers, performing over 10 deploys per
    day. This agility delights the business and terrifies security.
    DevOps aligns the former adversaries of Dev and Ops. Security needs
    to enable ludicrous speed or be left behind. We make a case for
    Rugged DevOps as an answer.

<!-- end list -->

  - <b>Speaker Bio:</b> ![JoshuaCorman.jpg](JoshuaCorman.jpg
    "JoshuaCorman.jpg") Joshua Corman is the Director of Security
    Intelligence for Akamai Technologies and has more than a decade of
    experience in security. Most recently he served as Research Director
    for Enterprise Security at The 451 Group following his time as
    Principal Security Strategist for IBM Internet Security Systems. Mr.
    Corman’s research highlights adversaries, game theory and
    motivational structures. His analysis cuts across sectors to the
    core security challenges plaguing the IT industry, and helps to
    drive evolutionary strategies toward emerging technologies and
    shifting incentives. His research and education efforts won him the
    title of Top Influencer of IT by NetworkWold magazine in 2009. Mr.
    Corman is a candid and highly-coveted speaker with engagements at
    leading industry events such as RSA, DEFCON, Interop, ISACA, and
    SANS. As a staunch advocate for CISOs, Corman also serves as a
    Fellow with the Ponemon Institute, on the Faculty for IANS, and
    co-founded Rugged Software – a value-based initiative to raise
    awareness and usher in an era of secure digital infrastructure.
    Corman received his bachelor’s degree in philosophy, graduating Phi
    Beta Kappa and summa cum laude, from the University of New
    Hampshire. He resides with his wife and two daughters in New
    Hampshire.

    Corman can be found on twitter @joshcorman and on his blog at
    <http://blog.cognitivedissidents.com/>

`   Meeting Sponsor `![`Akamai_logo.jpg`](Akamai_logo.jpg
"Akamai_logo.jpg")

## May Meeting

### Pragmatic Cloud Security

  - <b>Who: </b> David Mortman of [enStratus](http://www.enstratus.com)

<!-- end list -->

  - <b>Abstract:</b> Cloud security is more then just hype. I'll do a
    quick overview of the reality of cloud computing versus the hype and
    then take things a step further and teach how one can pragmatically
    deploy to the cloud in away that takes security, privacy and
    operational concerns into account without hindering the business.
    It’s not as hard as it sounds, it just requires leveraging the
    right people, process and technology and I’ll show you how.

`   Meeting Sponsor `[<https://www.owasp.org/images/e/e4/Modis.jpg>](http://www.modis.com)

## April Meeting

### Top Ten Web Defenses

  - <b>Who: </b> Jim Manico from [WhiteHat
    Security](https://www.whitehatsec.com/)

<!-- end list -->

  - <b>Abstract:</b> We cannot hack or firewall our way secure.
    Application programmers need to learn to code in a secure fashion if
    we have any chance of providing organizations with proper defenses
    in the current threatscape. This talk will discuss the 10 most
    important security-centric computer programming techniques necessary
    to build low-risk web-based applications.

<!-- end list -->

  - <b>Speaker Bio:</b> Jim Manico is the VP of Security Architecture
    for WhiteHat Security, a web security firm. Jim is a participant and
    project manager of the OWASP Developer Cheatsheet series. He is also
    the producer and host of the OWASP Podcast Series.

`   Meeting Sponsor `[<https://www.owasp.org/images/4/4d/Whitehat.gif>](https://www.whitehatsec.com)

## March Meeting

### The Danger of the Security ASS-umption

  - <b>Who: </b> Michael Farnum, Security Advocate for
    [Accuvant](http://www.accuvant.com/)

<!-- end list -->

  - <b>Abstract:</b> Many enterprise technical security assessments look
    at too few attack vectors or do not dig far enough into the attack
    vectors once a vulnerability has been discovered. This is often due
    to risk ASS-umptions that are made by security staff / management,
    and these ASS-umptions often cause failures in findings. Come join a
    discussion on the breakdown of a technical security assessment,
    explore the essential attack vectors, and debate the depth to which
    the assessment should go.

<!-- end list -->

  - <b>Speaker Bio:</b> Michael is the Security Advocate for Accuvant.
    Michael has over 17 years experience in IT and security,
    specializing in security infrastructure design and information
    security management. A skilled communicator, Michael is a well known
    security blogger and podcaster. Michael has spoken on various
    security topics at several conferences and events across the United
    States. He holds several security and technology certifications,
    including the ever-controversial CISSP. Prior to joining Accuvant,
    Michael was the Information Security Manager at The Menninger Clinic
    in Houston, TX. Before that, Michael performed random acts of
    security lunacy at companies all over Houston, TX.

`   Meeting Sponsor `[<https://www.owasp.org/images/5/5e/Accuvant.png>](http://www.accuvant.com)

## February Meeting

### How To Do Mobile Application Assessments

  - <b>Who: </b> Jeremy Allen CTO of [The Intrepidus
    Group](http://www.intrepidusgroup.com)

<!-- end list -->

  - <b>Abstract:</b> This talk will focus on mobile application
    assessment techniques. The assessment techniques will focus on how
    to test applications for the OWASP Mobile Top 10 issues. Mitigation
    techniques for both Android and iOS will be discussed. Mallory,
    Intrepidus Group’s Man in The Middle tool designed to test mobile
    devices and applications, will be demonstrated throughout the
    presentation. Additionally, usage of other open source tools will be
    demonstrated. Both iOS and Android will be discussed.

<!-- end list -->

  - <b>Speaker Bio:</b> Jeremy Allen is the Chief Technology Officer
    with the Intrepidus Group. Jeremy is a regular speaker at popular
    security conferences such as BlackHat, SOURCE and OWASP AppSec. He
    is currently the lead on the development of the SANS �-Y΄Secure
    Mobile Application Development: iOS App Security‘ course. He has
    conducted numerous application assessments against iOS applications.

`   Meeting Sponsor `[<https://www.owasp.org/images/7/70/150-22.png>](http://www.intrepidusgroup.com)

## January Meeting

### Mobile Application Security

  - <b>Who: </b> John Steven and Jason Rouse
  - <b>Abstract:</b> Mobile devices are on your network and they are out
    to get you. Are you ready?
  - <b>Speaker Bios:</b> John and Jason both work for Cigital.

<!-- end list -->

  -
    <b>John Steven, Internal CTO</b>

<!-- end list -->

  -
    John’s expertise runs the gamut of software security from threat
    modeling and architectural risk analysis, through static analysis
    (with an emphasis on automation), to security testing. As a
    consultant, John has provided strategic direction to many
    multi-national corporations, and his keen interest in automation
    keeps Cigital technology at the cutting edge. He has served as
    co-editor of the Building Security In department of IEEE Security &
    Privacy magazine, speaks with regularly at conferences and trade
    shows, and is the leader of the Northern Virginia OWASP chapter.

<!-- end list -->

  -
    <b>Jason Rouse, Principal Consultant</b>

<!-- end list -->

  -
    Jason has spent the last five years designing, implementing, and
    deploying state of the art wireless security solutions for mobile
    environments, spanning access control, application management,
    payment systems, and hybrid J2EE-and-mobile systems. His work has
    helped clients to identify the biggest risks in their mobile
    applications, for example after reviewing a mobile payment system
    which used SMS messages to alert the user to opportunities in the
    market, errors were found in the handset and back-end that could
    lead to denial of service on both the handsets and the back-end
    servers. The mobile environment’s mix of custom hardware, software,
    and architectures can make finding, verifying, and remediating these
    types of issues exceptionally difficult, showing the unique security
    threats present in mobile environments. As a trusted advisor, Jason
    has led standards efforts, chairing the FSTC Mobile Payment Security
    workgroup to identify and document technology-based opportunities
    for banks in the mobile arena. The project aims to define standards
    for technology and interoperability that give all mobile phone users
    a seamless, secure, and easy-to-use payment option for everyday
    banking.

# 2011 Presentations

## November Meeting

### The Alphabet Soup of Security Certifications

  - <b>Who: </b> Allison Shubert

<!-- end list -->

  - <b>Abstract:</b> Certifications are a part of our life whether we
    like it or not. What are your choices? Are any of them worth the
    time and effort it takes to get them and then to maintain them? It's
    a jungle out there and luckily we have a guide to help us sort it
    all out. Allison will help us sort out the mess that we call
    Alphabet Soup and help us understand whether or not certifications
    are worth it for you.

<!-- end list -->

  - <b>Speaker Bio:</b> Allison Shubert has over 11 years of experience
    in IT concentrating on security and risk management. she is CISSP
    and CSSLP certified and also serves as a subject matter expert for
    ISC2 for the CISSP and CSSLP certifications.

## October Meeting

### Debugging The Attack

  - <b>Who: </b> Blaine Wilson

<!-- end list -->

  - <b>Abstract:</b> Please join us as Blaine Wilson attaches a debugger
    to some of the OWASP Top Ten Web Application Vulnerabilities. No
    technical experience is required. Blaine will explain each
    vulnerability in plain English and then he will launch an attack so
    you watch the vulnerability be exploited step by step.

<!-- end list -->

  - <b>Speaker Bio:</b> Blaine has 18 years experience in database
    design, web application architecture and information systems
    security. He currently works for CitiGroup as an Information
    Security Officer.

## September Meeting

### Software Security and the Building Security in Maturity Model

  - <b>Who: </b>Dr. Gary McGraw, CTO of Cigital

<!-- end list -->

  - <b>Abstract:</b> Using the framework described in my book "Software
    Security: Building Security In", I will discuss and describe the
    state of the practice in software security. This talk is peppered
    with real data from the field, based on my work with several large
    companies as a Cigital consultant. As a discipline, software
    security has made great progress over the last decade. Of the sixty
    large-scale software security initiatives we are aware of, forty two
    all household names are currently included in the BSIMM study. Those
    companies among the forty-two who graciously agreed to be identified
    include: Adobe, Aon, Bank of America, Capital One, The Depository
    Trust & Clearing Corporation (DTCC), EMC, Google, Intel, Intuit,
    McKesson, Microsoft, Nokia, QUALCOMM, Sallie Mae, SAP, Standard
    Life, SWIFT, Symantec, Telecom Italia, Thomson Reuters, VMware, and
    Wells Fargo. The BSIMM was created by observing and analyzing
    real-world data from leading software security initiatives. The
    BSIMM can help you determine how your organization compares to other
    real software security initiatives and what steps can be taken to
    make your approach more effective.

## August Meeting

### Defending against XSS

  - <b>Who: </b> Jason Montgomery, SANS Instructor, Secure Coding in
    .NET: Developing Defensible Applications

<b> The presentation can be downloaded
[herein](https://www.owasp.org/images/4/41/OWASP_Cinci_-_Defending_ASP.NET_Apps_From_XSS_8_30_2011_-_Copy.pptx)
</b>

A video recorded at the Ohio Information Security Forum is available
from
[here](http://www.irongeek.com/i.php?page=videos/oisf-2011#Defending_against_XSS)

## July Meeting

### Managing Risk with Threat Modeling

  - <b>Who: </b> Anurag Agarwal, MyAppSecurity Founder

<!-- end list -->

  - <b>Abstract:</b> Threats & vulnerabilities exploits are gaining
    momentum at many companies today because of the recent hacks at
    Sony, PBS, CIA and other high profile companies. Since these
    companies have already adopted mature vulnerability assessment and
    secure code analysis processes/tools and yet, there were negatively
    impacted by these hacks, proves the point that it's not enough to
    rely solely upon traditional application security assessments &
    tools to mitigate the risk and the impact of these hacks. The new
    approach is to use a threat modeling tool and a process to identify
    vulnerabilities during design and use Vulnerability Assessment (VA)
    and/or Static Code Analysis (SCA) tools to validate that these
    threats and vulnerabilties are mitigated in the application and/or
    source code. More and more organizations have realized today, that
    identifying threats during the design phase and planning a technical
    risk mitigation strategy earlier in the SDLC helps in controlling of
    risks as well in the saving time and money. Threat Modeling can
    guide application development teams in ensuring that the
    organization's security policies are followed at time of design
    prior to the development and testing of the application. By creating
    pre-approved security requirements and by applying them with a
    repeatable and scalable process, you can assist your organization
    development teams in building a secure application easily and
    effortless.

<b>The presentation can be downloaded from
[here](https://www.owasp.org/images/9/98/Manage_Your_Risk_With_ThreatModeler.pdf)</b>

## June Meeting

### Magic Numbers - Proving Success Through 5 Powerful KPIs

  - <b>Who: </b> Rafal Los, Application Security Evangelist at HP

<!-- end list -->

  - <b>Abstract:</b> By now, most enterprises have figured out the dire
    need for software security assurance (SSA) programs, and are working
    on improving the security of their applications. The problems these
    organizations face now is that these initiatives are most often
    security-team-driven and either fear-based or run on "black magic".
    As organizations mature and start to examine budgets and program
    spending more carefully - these SSA programs are having a difficult
    time explaining what they do, and how (if at all) they're succeeding
    in lowering the risk posture of their parent organization. This talk
    defines Key Performance Indicators (KPIs) which will help bridge the
    gaps between the business and the technical security team that
    supports it. The KPIs presented will provide business context and
    assist in having a more intelligent conversation with the rest of
    the technology organization when it comes to answering the question
    "Is the \[SSA\] program working?".

## April Meeting

### How to Develop Secure Web Applications with the OWASP Enteprise Security API (ESAPI)

  - <b>Who: </b> Andrea Cogliati Owner & Security Consultant, Dollos Srl

<!-- end list -->

  - <b>Abstract:</b> [ESAPI (The OWASP Enterprise Security
    API)](https://www.owasp.org/index.php/Category:OWASP_Enterprise_Security_API)
    is a free, open source, web application security control library
    that makes it easier for programmers to write lower-risk
    applications. The ESAPI libraries are designed to make it easier for
    programmers to retrofit security into existing applications. The
    ESAPI libraries also serve as a solid foundation for new
    development. The following organizations are a few of the many
    organizations that are starting to adopt ESAPI to secure their web
    applications: American Express, Apache Foundation, Booz Allen
    Hamilton, Aspect Security, Foundstone(McAfee), The Hartford,
    Infinite Campus, Lockheed Martin, MITRE, U.S. Navy - SPAWAR, The
    World Bank, SANS Institute.

## March Meetings

### Top Website Vulnerabilities: Trends, Business Effects and How to Fight Them

  - <b>Who: </b> Jeremiah Grossman, Founder & CTO of WhiteHat Security

<!-- end list -->

  - <b>Abstract:</b> Jeremiah Grossman, Founder & CTO of WhiteHat
    Security, will draw from their most recent Website Security
    Statistics Report - A statistical picture from over five years of
    continuous vulnerability assessment results taken from over 3,000
    websites across 400 organizations. This represents the largest, most
    complete, and unique dataset of its kind. The presentation will be
    purely metrics focused, specifically discussing which classes of
    vulnerabilities are the most prevalent, measured remediation rates,
    time-to-fix analysis, and sorted by industry and organization size.
    While already incredibly revealing, the discussion will also go
    further back into the SDLC to better understand how many and how
    often vulnerabilities are introduced. For some organizations the
    problem area may simply be the volume of vulnerabilities introduced.
    For other organizations the primary challenge is obtaining the
    resources to fix the vulnerabilities that are identified. For
    others, the greatest need is to accelerate the vulnerability
    resolution process. This is the level of detail organizations need
    to measurably improve their application security programs.

`    Meeting Sponsor `[<https://www.owasp.org/images/4/4d/Whitehat.gif>](https://www.whitehatsec.com/)`   `

### ATM Threats, Vulnerabilities and Exploits

  - <b>Who: </b> Barnaby Jack, Director of Research, IOActive

<!-- end list -->

  - <b>Abstract:</b> The most common attacks on Automated Teller
    Machines (ATMs) typically involve the use of card skimmers or the
    physical theft of the machines. Barnaby Jack research goes beyond
    physical vulnerabilities and reveals software-based attacks. He will
    demonstrate both local and remote attacks, and reveal a
    multi-platform rootkit. The rootkit was specifically designed for
    ATMs to give an attacker the ability to dispense cash from the
    machine, retrieve ATM passwords and settings, and retrieve tracking
    data remotely.

## February Meeting

### Cloud Computing Security

  - <b>Who: </b> Dr. James Walden, Assistant Professor Department of
    Computer Science at Northern Kentucky University

<!-- end list -->

  - <b>Abstract:</b> Cloud computing is an emerging paradigm for large
    scale web application deployment. While cloud computing may reduce
    the complexity and costs of web application deployment, it also
    introduces new risks and requires a fundamentally different approach
    to security. Traditional security approaches such as firewalls and
    network intrusion detection are either impossible or inappropriate
    for cloud applications. New risks include loss of governance,
    failure of compliance with regulations that assume infrastructure is
    physical rather than virtual, an expanded attack surface resulting
    from the connection between your organization and the cloud, and
    hypervisor attacks that may enable attackers on the same physical
    server to access your data. This talk will address how these risks
    occur in the context of cloud computing and will examine ways to
    mitigate them.

<b>The presentation can be downloaded from
[here](https://www.owasp.org/images/d/d1/Cloud-security.pdf)</b>

## January Meeting

### How to Prevent Business Flaws Vulnerabilities In Web Applications

  - <b>Who: </b> Marco Morana, OWASP Cincinnati Chapter Lead
    [OWASP](https://www.owasp.org)
    [Bio](https://www.owasp.org/index.php/Marco_Morana)

<!-- end list -->

  - <b>Abstract:</b> Business logic attacks (BLA) represent a growing
    threat for web applications. BLA specifically target the business
    logic of the application to exploit vulnerabilities that are
    uncommon and specific to the application logic. Example of these
    vulnerabilities include a flaw in the shopping cart of the
    application that allows a malicious user to alter the price of an
    item and access to unauthorized business transactions through
    forceful browsing to a web page bypassing the normal workflow of the
    application. Scope of the presentation is to analyze the threat
    posed by BLA and provide example on how a threat modeling
    methodology can be used to identify application specific application
    flaws and devise countermeasures so that these attacks can be both
    prevented and detected.

<b>The presentation can be downloaded from
[here](https://www.owasp.org/images/a/aa/OWASP_Cincinnati_Jan_2011.pdf)</b>

# 2010 Presentations

## November Meeting

  - <b>Presentation Title: Vulnerability Analysis, Secure Development
    and Risk Management of Web 2.0 Applications, Marco Morana, OWASP
    Cincinnati Chapter Lead [OWASP](https://www.owasp.org)
    [Bio](https://www.owasp.org/index.php/Marco_Morana)</b>

<!-- end list -->

  -
    <b>The presentation can be downloaded from
    [here](https://www.owasp.org/images/c/c1/OWASP_Cincy_Web2_Threats_and_Countermeasures.pdf)</b>

<!-- end list -->

  -
    According to the Gartner hype curve, Web 2.0 technologies have
    reached a stage of mainstream adoption by businesses, therefore is
    critical for information and application security to understand the
    security implications of the adoption of Web 2.0 technologies. Web
    2.0 not only amplify traditional Web 1.0 vulnerabilities such as
    XSS, CSRF and data injection vulnerabilities but also introduces new
    threats: this is due to the intrinsic functionality that Web 2.0
    technology is designed to provide. For example, Web 2.0 technologies
    provide a richer client and user experience than Web 1.0, foster
    user’s collaboration to the sites through user's provided content
    and brings customers closer to businesses through participation to
    social networking sites. The first step is to perform a
    vulnerability and threat analysis of Web 2.0 applications. From
    vulnerability and threat analysis perspective, Web 2.0 application
    vulnerabilities can be analyzed using both OWASP Top 10 and WASC Top
    50 threats categorizations. Critical to the vulnerability analysis
    of Web 2.0 applications is the determination of the vulnerability
    root causes. Only through the identification of the vulnerabilities
    root causes vulnerabilities can be eradicated. The second step is
    build secure Web 2.0 applications. Secure design and implementation
    of Web 2.0 applications starts with a plan for adoption of software
    security activities as part of the SDLC. Essential software security
    activities include the documentation of secure coding requirements
    for Web 2.0 such as for AJAX, secure design and review of Web 2.0
    architectures, manual/automatic secure code reviews/analysis and
    security testing. Security testing need to target both Web 2.0
    client/desktop components (e.g. FLASH, RIA, mashups) as well as
    server components/functionality (e.g. Web services). Finally, the
    third step includes managing the business risks that Web 2.0 design
    flaws and bugs might pose to the business. The OWASP risk
    methodology and a web 2.0 risk framework is proposed as methodology
    to analyze and manage Web 2.0 security risks. A simple example on
    how to integrate with Web 2.0 technology securely such as a twitter
    interface to a web site, it is also presented.

## October Meeting

  - <b>Presentation Title: TLS Renegotiation, the vulnerability, the
    twitter attack and ways to tell if your application is vulnerable
    and how to fix it</b> Mr. Blaine Wilson, Information Security
    Architect at Great American Insurance :<b>The presentation can be
    downloaded from
    [here](https://www.owasp.org/images/f/f8/OWASP_-_TLS_Renegotiation_Vulnerability.pdf)</b>

## September Meeting

  - <b>Presentation Title:Data Security challenges in the all too Public
    and not so Private sectors</b> Mr. Patrick Gray, Principal Security
    Strategist of [Cisco Systems](http://www.cisco.com)

<!-- end list -->

  -
    <b>The presentation can be downloaded from
    [here](https://www.owasp.org/images/6/6e/OWASP.v.2.pdf)</b>
    The Internet threat landscape has shifted. What used to be a
    playground for hackers, crackers, script kiddies and packet monkeys
    is now a borderless abyss of organized crime fueled by financial
    gain and state sponsored forays into our critical infrastructures.
    Cisco Systems' Patrick Gray, a twenty-year veteran of the FBI, will
    explore the current threat landscape by highlighting the newest
    cyber criminals and examining the latest tactics employed by these
    predators. Gray will address how spammers, phishers, botmasters and
    hackers interact with this new crime element utilizing Web 2.0
    technologies and how we can prepare our infrastructures to stave off
    these relentless attacks and protect our critical business assets.

## July Meeting

  - <b>Presentation Title:Botnet Attacks and Web Application Defenses
    </b>Gunter Ollmann VP of Research, Damballa

<!-- end list -->

  -
    <b>The presentation can be downloaded from
    [here](https://www.owasp.org/images/b/bd/OWASP_Cincinnati_July2010_GunterOllmann.pdf)</b>
    Security researcher Gunter Ollmann of Damballa provides an analysis
    of the botnet threats and the crimeware used by cybercriminals
    including banking trojans such as Zeus. Information about the
    attacks used toward the soft targets such as the user's browser is
    dealt with including Man-in-The-Browser(MiTB)and Man In The Middle
    (MiTM) attacks. Examples on how these attacks techniques can be used
    for attacking banking customers are included as well as the
    protection strategies that banks can adopt for protecting from these
    attacks with specific emphasis on-line banking applications.

## June Meeting

  - <b>Presentation Title:Security of plugins compared to the main
    applications</b> Dr James Walden, Assistant Professor Department of
    Computer Science at Northern Kentucky University

<!-- end list -->

  -
    <b>The presentation can be downloaded from
    [here](https://www.owasp.org/images/0/04/Plugins_Security_OWASP_Cincinnati-2010-Prezo.pdf)</b>
    Popular open source web applications have evolved into complex
    software ecosystems, consisting of a core maintained by a set of
    long term developers and a range of plugins developed by third
    parties. These plugins accomplish such tasks as adding forms to a
    content management system, connecting a blog with social networking
    systems, or even scanning for malware infecting the application. The
    security of such web applications depends as much on vulnerabilities
    found in plugins as it does in vulnerabilities in the application
    core. In this talk, we will examine the security of plugins and the
    impact of adding plugins to the security of those applications. We
    will look at empirical data, such as the number, types, and
    locations of vulnerabilities in these web applications, and examine
    how we can use such data to decide which applications to use and to
    decide how to focus our efforts security such applications.

## May Meeting

  - <b>Protecting Your Applications from Backdoors: How to Secure Your
    Business Critical Applications</b> Clint Pollock, Senior Solutions
    Architect at Veracode

`    Meeting Sponsor `[`Veracode,``   ``Inc.`](http://www.veracode.com)

  -
    <b>The presentation can be downloaded from
    [here](https://www.owasp.org/images/8/81/Protecting_the_Enterprise_-_Software_Backdoors.pdf)</b>
    With the increasing practice of outsourcing and using 3rd party
    libraries, it is nearly impossible for an enterprise to identify the
    pedigree and security of the software running its business critical
    applications. As a result backdoors and malicious code are
    increasingly becoming the prevalent attack vector used by hackers.
    Whether you manage internal development activities, work with third
    party developers or are developing a COTS application for
    enterprise, your mandate is clear- safeguard your code and make
    applications security a priority for internal and external
    development teams. In this session we will cover; (1) Prevalence of
    backdoors and malicious code in third party attacks; (2) Definitions
    and classifications of backdoors and their impact on your
    applications; (3) Methods to identify, track and remediate these
    vulnerabilities

## April Meeting

  - <b>Measuring Your Proactive Security Efforts </b> Cassio Goldschmidt
    Senior Manager Symantec Corporation.

<!-- end list -->

  -
    <b>The presentation can be downloaded from
    [here](https://www.owasp.org/images/4/4a/Tracking_the_Progress_of_an_SDL_Program_-_OWASP.pptx)</b>
    Forcing muscle growth is a long process which requires high
    intensity weight training and high mental concentration. While the
    ultimate goal is often clear, one of the greatest mistakes
    bodybuilders consistently make is to overlook the importance of
    tracking their weight lifting progress. Like a successful
    bodybuilding workout, a security development lifecycle program must
    consistently log simple to obtain, yet meaningful metrics throughout
    the entire process. Good metrics must lack subjectivity and clearly
    aid decision makers to determine areas that need improvement. In
    this pragmatic presentation we’ll discuss metrics used at Symantec,
    the world’s largest security ISV, to classify and appropriately
    compare security vulnerabilities found in different phases of the
    SDL by different teams working in different locations and in
    different products. We’ll also discuss how to easily provide
    decision makers different views of the same data and verify whether
    the process is indeed catching critical vulnerabilities internally
    and how the numbers compare with the competition

## March Meeting

  - <b>Thick Client Application (In)Security</b> Mr. Neelay S Shah
    Senior Software Security Consultant Foundstone Professional
    Services, A Division of McAfee Strategic Security

<!-- end list -->

  -
    <b>The presentation can be downloaded from
    [here](https://www.owasp.org/images/e/e7/Thick_Client_%28In%29Security_-_Neelay_S_Shah_-_Mar_24.pdf)</b>
    Applications are becoming richer in terms of their user interface,
    attempting to leave a lasting impression on the users and wanting
    them to come back for more. Applications these days expose various
    ways for the user to interact with the application to create a
    “rich” application experience for the user. Thick client
    applications are the preferred choice to guarantee the above
    principles since they can leverage existing robust frameworks such
    as JAVA and .NET to create a rich user interface and are not limited
    by the browsers’ (in)ability to render the user interface elements.
    However with the increased sophistication, comes increased
    complexity and hence it is not uncommon to find client applications
    that are not only serving as the “presentation” tier but also
    potentially comprise of business logic to a varied extent. Security
    testing for thick client applications is a fairly involved and
    specialized task as compared to security testing web applications
    since each thick client is custom designed and developed for the
    application at hand. As such security testing each thick client
    application potentially involves dealing with different technologies
    and communication protocols and hence necessitates the use of
    different approaches. Attendees will learn the different strategies
    and methods that can be used for successfully testing thick client
    applications. We will discuss the different techniques to be able to
    bypass client side checks including methods for successfully
    understanding and intercepting client – server network
    communication. We will also evaluate the above mentioned techniques
    at depth in terms of their advantages, disadvantage and when to use
    the particular technique. This talk is intended for application
    testers, developers, project managers and application security
    professionals.

## February Meeting

  - <b>Modern Application Testing Methodologies, Mr. Mark Maxey</b>
    Principal Consultant [Accuvant](http://www.accuvant.com/)

`    Meeting Sponsor `[<https://www.owasp.org/images/d/dc/Accuvant.jpg>](http://www.accuvant.com)`   `

  -
    This talk will give an overview of contemporary application testing
    methodologies and tools. A comparison of the various methodologies
    will be provided in conjunction with the results of an in depth
    analysis of the various methodologies when paired against real world
    applications.

## January Meeting

  - <b>Microsoft Security Development Lifecycle Tools </b> Russell
    McMahon, Associate Professor of IT at the College of Applied
    Science, University of Cincinnati.

<!-- end list -->

  -
    <b>The presentation can be downloaded from
    [here](https://www.owasp.org/images/4/42/Microsoft-SDL2.pdf)</b>
    This talk will focus on the tools that Microsoft has developed for
    aiding in creating more secure applications. Microsoft developed the
    SDL system back in 2004 and it has begun to mature, but it still has
    a way to go. They have incorporated their Threat Analysis Modeling
    (TAM) tool into their SDL system and now call it SDL-Line of
    Business (LOB) tool. This talk will also look at some of the other
    systems that exist for developing secure applications

# 2009 Presentations

## November Meeting

  - <b>Virtual Patching for Web Applications: Theory and Practice</b>
    Ryan Barnett, Director of Application Security Research, Breach
    Security Inc

<!-- end list -->

  -
    Fixing identified vulnerabilities in web application always requires
    time. Organizations often do not have access to a commercial
    application's source code and are at the vendor's mercy while
    waiting for a patch. Even if they have access to the code,
    implementing a patch in development takes time. This leaves a window
    of opportunity for the attacker to exploit. External patching (also
    called "just-in-time patching" and "virtual patching") is one of the
    biggest advantages of web application firewalls as they can fix this
    problem externally. A fix for a specific vulnerability is usually
    very easy to design and in most cases it can be done in less than 15
    minutes. This presentation will outline exactly when and where
    Virtual Patching is appropriate and will show the proper steps for
    their creation and testing.

## October Meeting

  - <b> Threat analysis as methodology for deriving risk-based security
    tests of web application software</b> Marco Morana OWASP Chapter
    Lead (presented at [2009 IMI Security Symposium &
    Expo](http://imi.nku.edu/security/2009_Symposium/default.aspx))

<!-- end list -->

  -
    <b>The presentationcan be downloaded [from
    here](https://www.owasp.org/index.php/File:IMI_2009_Security_Summit.ppt)
    </b>
    The risk that a web application might incur in a security incident
    such a major data breach depends on several risk factors such as the
    exposure into the public internet, the likelihood of being a target
    as well as the knowledge, tools and techniques available to the
    attacker to break into the application. In order to mitigate such
    risks, web applications are security tested with testing techniques
    such as penetration testing and secure code analysis. The aim of
    this presentation is first to introduce the audience to the basics
    of security testing such as the derivation of functional and non
    functional security requirements, the execution of security testing
    as part of the SDLC and as part of developers and tester workflows.
    The presentation will also cover the most used security testing
    techniques, OWASP testing guide, tools and vulnerability reporting
    and testing metrics. Often companies use security tests for meeting
    compliance requirements such as PCI-DSS, passing such security tests
    provides a level of application security assurance but in light of
    several data breaches occurring to organizations today it is logical
    to ask whether we can consider an application secure because
    security testing did not found any high and medium risk
    vulnerabilities. From the perspective of security testing, this
    status quo advocates the need to a new approach toward security
    testing: a risk based, threat driven approach. From the risk
    mitigation perspective, security tests need to validate mitigations
    against new attack techniques used by cybercriminals and fraudsters
    and focus on tests where the difficulty of the attack is the least
    and the impact is the highest. The presentation will provide
    examples of derivation of risk based security test cases using data
    from cyber-intelligence reports, attack tree analysis, attack vector
    analysis, security flaw analysis, use and misuse cases and
    application threat modeling/secure architecture analysis.

## September Meeting

  - <b>The rise of threat analysis and the fall of compliance in
    mitigating cybercrime risks</b> Marco Morana OWASP Chapter Lead
    (also presented to [OWASP
    LA](https://www.owasp.org/index.php/Los_Angeles) and [Orange County
    Chapters](https://www.owasp.org/index.php/Orange_County))

<!-- end list -->

  -
    On August 5 of 2009, Federal prosecutors charged [Albert
    Gonzales](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Albert_Gonzalez) with the
    largest case of credit and debit card data theft ever occurred in
    the United States: the theft of 130 million credit cards numbers by
    hacking into [Heartland Payment
    Systems](http://datalossdb.org/incidents/1518-malicious-software-hack-compromises-unknown-number-of-credit-cards-at-fifth-largest-credit-card-processor),
    [Hannaford
    Brothers](http://datalossdb.org/incidents/932-4-2-million-credit-card-and-debit-card-numbers-exposed-in-breach),
    7-Eleven and two unnamed national retailers. This massive theft of
    credit card data happened despite Heartland Payment Systems and
    Hannaford Bros companies passed security audits in compliance with
    [PCI-DSS standard](https://www.pcisecuritystandards.org/). This
    fact, let to question the effectiveness of regulatory compliance
    frameworks, and specifically compliance with PCI-DSS standards in
    reducing the likelihood of data breaches, identity theft, and the
    credit card fraud. This presentation will further analyze the impact
    of these data breaches by monetizing the losses as being reported in
    quarterly earnings reports (e.g.
    [TJX](http://www.consumeraffairs.com/news04/2007/02/tjx_date.html))
    as well as impact on stock price (e.g. HPY) at the time of public
    disclosure of the incident. It is shown as monetizing the loss due
    to data breaches helps to frame non-compliance risks as a factor of
    business impact to mitigate non compliance fines. Traditional
    compliance and audit driven security assessments efforts are
    compared with a threat analysis approach: it is demonstrated that
    cybercrime risks require organizations to move beyond audit and
    compliance. Moving beyond means understanding complex threat
    scenarios and study attacks in the wild with
    [cyber-intelligence](http://www.ic3.gov/default.aspx). Cases of
    publicly reported cybercrime attacks are used to outline the new
    threat landscape and the attack scenarios. The attacker motives and
    the means to achieve them will be analyzed by using [attack
    trees](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Attack_tree):an attack tree can
    be used to analyze cyber attacks against web applications, breaches
    of credit card data as well as ATM fraud. [Use and misuse
    cases](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Misuse_case) will be used to
    evaluate the strength of multi-factor authentication against attacks
    such as MiTM (Man In The Middle). Examples of [attack
    vectors](http://ha.ckers.org/xss.html) for testing defenses against
    cybercrime attacks (e.g. [HTML-IFRAME Injection Attack
    Vectors](http://www.gnucitizen.org/blog/frame-injection-fun/) and
    [drive by download](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Drive-by_download))
    will be provided. [Data Flow Diagrams
    (DFD)](https://www.owasp.org/index.php/Application_Threat_Modeling)
    Analysis and [Architecture Risk Analysis
    examples](https://buildsecurityin.us-cert.gov/daisy/bsi/articles/best-practices/architecture.html)
    will be presented to identify the entry points for attack vectors,
    the user access levels that can be exploited and to enumerate
    threats, attacks, vulnerabilities and countermeasures. Security by
    deployment and security by design concepts will be elaborated as
    strategy to build countermeasures using [security by design
    architecture
    principles](http://blogs.msdn.com/jmeier/archive/2008/04/07/security-principles.aspx).
    Finally, risk mitigation strategies will be discussed as
    self-awareness questions. The presentation re-affirms that audit and
    compliance needs to be approached as factor of minimum business risk
    mitigation. A cybercrime risk mitigation strategy needs to
    consider[application threat
    modeling](https://www.owasp.org/index.php/Application_Threat_Modeling)
    as critical assessment for high risk web applications.

## August Meeting

  - <b>OWASP T10 For Web Services </b> Marco Morana OWASP Chapter Lead

<!-- end list -->

  -
    <b>The presentation is available
    [herein](http://www.slideshare.net/marco_morana/owasp-forum-web-services-security-1929468)</b>
    Following the video presentation from Gunnar Peterson talk at OWASP
    USA NYC 08 AppSec Conference a summary of OWASP T10 Vulnerabilities
    for Web Services is highlighted as well as the recommended
    countermeasures. Discussion points around Web Services security were
    proposed for discussion as well further reference to OWASP Web
    Services Security resources.

## July Meeting

  - <b>An Empirical Study of Web Application Security Trends </b> Dr.
    James Walden Assistant Professor Department of Computer Science
    Northern Kentucky University

<!-- end list -->

  -
    What is the current state of web application security? Are web
    applications more or less secure than they were last year? This
    presentation will attempt to answer those questions through an
    empirical study of popular open source web applications over the
    past two years. Data and statistics on vulnerability density,
    vulnerability types, and vulnerability severity will be analyzed,
    along with software metrics that may reflect application security.

## June Meeting

  - <b>The Web Hacking Incidents Database (WHID) – 2009 Analysis</b> <i>
    Ryan Barnett -[Breach Security Inc](http://www.breach.com)</i>

`    Meeting Sponsor `[<https://www.owasp.org/images/9/9c/Breach_logo.gif>](http://www.breach.com)`   `

  -
    <b>The presentation is available
    [herein](https://www.owasp.org/images/e/e5/The_Web_Hacking_Incidents_Database_-_2009_Bi-Annual_Report.pdf)</b>
    The web hacking incident database (WHID) is a Web Application
    Security Consortium project dedicated to maintaining a list of web
    applications related security incidents. WHID goal is to serve as a
    tool for raising awareness of the web application security problem
    and provide information for statistical analysis of web applications
    security incidents. The database is unique in tracking only media
    reported security incidents that can be associated with a web
    application security vulnerability. This presentation will highlight
    the statistics gathered from the 1st half of 2009 (January – June)
    and provide insight into categories such as: 1) Top Attack Methods,
    2) Top Compromise Outcomes, 3) Top Target Geographic Region, 4) Top
    Vertical Markets Hit. The presenter will also provide some in-depth
    analysis for emerging threats/attack techniques such as planting of
    malware on websites and reflected cross-site scripting through sql
    injection.

## May Meeting

  - <b>OWASP T10 Vulnerabilities and Security Design Flaws Root
    Causes</b> <i> Marco Morana [OWASP Chapter
    Lead](https://www.owasp.org/index.php/Marco_Morana)</i>

<!-- end list -->

  -
    <b>The presentation is available
    [herein](https://www.owasp.org/images/c/c0/OWASP_Top_10_And_Security_Flaws_Root_Causes_Cincy_May_26_09_Final.pdf).</b>
    The fact that security flaws are still so pervasive in web
    applications today highlights the need to identify and fix them by
    looking at the root causes in the application architecture. This
    presentation will look at OWASP T10 vulnerabilities from the
    perspective of root causes in design and provide examples on how
    these vulnerabilities can be identified in a threat model and
    mitigated at different layers of the application architecture.
    Strategic and tactical approaches to the OWASP T10 will be
    discussed. The strategic approach will cover concepts and principles
    of security by design such as secure architecture principles and
    requirements for designing security controls. The OWASP Application
    Threat Modeling process is provided as reference even if not
    discussed with this presentation.

## April Meeting

  - <b>April 28th Presentation: Bad Cocktail: Application Security Flaws
    + Targeted Phishing</b> <i> Rohyt Belani is CEO and co-founder of
    </i> [Intrepidus Group](http://intrepidusgroup.com/default.htm)

<!-- end list -->

  -
    <b>The presentation is available
    [herein](https://www.owasp.org/images/5/55/OWASP-Cin-April2009.pdf).</b>
    Site takedown services, anti-phishing filters, and millions of
    dollars worth of protective technologies...and the spear phishers
    are still successful\! This presentation will discuss why this is
    the case. Today, phishing is a key component in a "hackers"
    repertoire. Phishers are combining social engineering with
    application security flaws in well known websites to make automated
    detection of targeted phishing attacks almost impossible. The result
    - hijacked online brokerage accounts, stolen identities and e-bank
    robberies. During this talk, I will present the techniques used by
    attackers to execute such spear phishing attacks, and real-world
    cases that I have responded to that will provide perspective on the
    impact. I will then discuss countermeasures that have been proven to
    be effective and are recommended by reputed bodies like SANS and
    Carnegie Mellon University.

## March Meeting

  - <b>March 24th Presentation: Application Testing Methods and Modern
    Threats</b> <i> Presenter: Mark Maxey Principal Consultant –
    Application Specialist – </i>[Accuvant, Inc](http://accuvant.com)

<!-- end list -->

  -
    Walk through the state of the available tools and around finding
    vulnerabilities, and tie the discussion into PCI DSS

### January Meeting

  - <b>Threat Analysis and Modeling</b> <i> Russell McMahon, associate
    professor of IT at the College of Applied Science, [University of
    Cincinnati](http://www.uc.edu/).</i>

<!-- end list -->

  -
    Security is a big issue and all too often it is only thought of as
    it applies to the network administrator. However, programmers face a
    host of threats to their applications. The solution is to build a
    threat model. The purpose of a threat model is to aid in identifying
    potential threats before a system is built, not after. This talk
    will cover some of the common threats to applications and how to
    prevent them. This talk is based upon [Microsoft's Threat Analysis
    and Modeling (TAM)
    tool](http://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/security/dd206731.aspx) and
    their newest version which is now part of their Security Development
    Lifecycle (SDL). This tool has been used by companies such as Ford
    and Boeing as a part of their total information life cycle process.
    Additional resources will also be discussed.

# 2008 Presentations

## November Meeting

  - Web App Hacking for Developers <i>Jeremiah Blatz, Senior Security
    Consultant, [Foundstone Professional
    Services](http://www.foundstone.com/us/index.asp)</i>

<!-- end list -->

  -
    <b>The presentation is available
    [herein](http://www.foundstone.com/us/resources/owasp_cincinnati_nov.pdf).</b>
    How safe are your web applications? You'll think twice after seeing
    how Foundstone security experts dig into their hacker's toolbox and
    rip open web applications by exploiting simple software bugs. Common
    problems such as Cross-Site Scripting (XSS) and SQL Injection will
    be demonstrated and explained, along with more subtle
    vulnerabilities including privilege escalation, data tampering, and
    Cross-Site Request Forgery. Even if you've seen XSS and SQL
    Injection before, advanced techniques will be presented that can
    slip through many protections. As a finale, the holy grail of web
    security will be broken with a Man-In-The-Middle attack on SSL.
    Countermeasures to prevent mistakes will then be shared.

## October Meeting

  - Phishing: Trends and Countermeasures<i> Blaine Wilson, Information
    Security Architect, [Great American Insurance
    Group](http://www.greatamericaninsurance.com/)</i>

<!-- end list -->

  -
    <b>The presentation is available
    [herein](https://www.owasp.org/index.php/Image:Phishing.pptx).</b>
    The presentation covered the current trends in phishing and how to
    establish countermeasures both from an infrastructure perspective,
    an application development perspective and the user awareness
    training.

## September Meeting

  - Input Validation Vulnerabilities, Encoded Attack Vectors and
    Mitigations<i> Marco Morana (TISO
    [Citigroup](http://www.citibank.com/us/index.htm)) & Scott Nusbaum
    (Security Analyst
    [Citigroup](http://www.citibank.com/us/index.htm))</i>

<!-- end list -->

  -
    <b>The presentation is available
    [herein](https://www.owasp.org/index.php/Image:Encoded_Attacks_Threats_Countermeasures_9_30_08.pdf).</b>

<!-- end list -->

  -
    Input validation vulnerabilities in web applications can be
    exploited with attack vectors to cause business impacts such as
    information disclosure, data alteration and destruction, denial or
    degradation of service, financial loss fraud and reputation brand
    damage. Several web applications today have implemented filtering
    techniques to block such attack vectors; unfortunately such
    filtering techniques are seldom based on black lists that fail when
    attackers use filter evasion techniques such as single and double
    encoding. This presentation will cover the basic understanding of
    attack vectors, the malicious payloads that can be carried out and
    the techniques used by attackers to evade input validation filters.
    Lists of different variations of encoded XSS attack vectors and
    constructed SQL injection vectors will be presented. From the
    defensive perspective, these lists can be used as cheat sheets for
    testing the efficacy of the input filtering techniques. A
    demonstration of a sample implementation of effective input
    validation using J2EE struts framework is also presented. During the
    presentation, web application developers and architects will be
    introduced to the concepts of canonicalization, encoding and
    sanitization and guided on the most effective input validation
    strategies and techniques as well as on the best use of available
    input validation resources from OWASP.

## August Meeting

  - The OWASP Enterprise Security API (ESAPI)<i> Joe Combs, Staff
    Consultant, [SEI-Cincinnati LLC](http://www.sysev.com/index.asp)</i>

<!-- end list -->

  -
    <b>The presentation is available
    [herein](https://www.owasp.org/index.php/Image:OWASP_Cincy_ESAPI.pdf).</b>

<!-- end list -->

  -
    Security controls are central to developing secure applications, yet
    few development teams code them properly (if they code them at
    all\!). The [OWASP Enterprise Security API
    (ESAPI)](https://www.owasp.org/index.php/ESAPI) provides a set of
    well defined interfaces for doing security "right" within your
    application and provides a reference implementation of these
    interfaces. ESAPI handles difficult tasks such as validation,
    encoding, encryption, and more. This presentation will provide a
    guided tour of ESAPI capabilities and recommended usage to combat
    the most pernicious vulnerabilities.

## July Meeting

  - Building Security Into Applications - <i>Marco M. Morana, TISO
    [Citigroup](http://www.citibank.com/us/index.htm) </i>

<!-- end list -->

  -
    <b>The presentation is available
    [herein](https://www.owasp.org/index.php/Image:Build_Security_Into_Applications_Short.pdf).</b>

<!-- end list -->

  -
    What is the best way to start a software security initiative within
    your organization? First you need to present the business case to
    the management in terms of costs, threats and root causes.
    Subsequently you need to provide a roadmap. The first step of the
    roadmap is to evaluate the maturity of secure software development
    processes, tools and training. The next step is to adopt a framework
    for software security activities, software development and risk
    management processes: software security enhanced process models such
    as MS SDL, OWASP CLASP and Cigital TP are examples of security
    engineering frameworks that can be used. Software security
    activities such as threat modeling, secure code reviews and security
    testing work as checkpoints to validate software artifacts and
    manage software security risks. Finally data such as vulnerability
    metrics and process management metrics helps to manage and optimize
    the software security processes in the long term and show the
    effectiveness of the software security initiative to the
    organization.

## June Meeting

  - SQl Injection - <i>Dr. James Walden, [Northern Kentucky
    University](http://www.nku.edu/)</i>

<!-- end list -->

  -
    <b>The presentation is available
    [herein](http://www.nku.edu/~waldenj1/talks/InjectionAttacks.ppt).</b>

<!-- end list -->

  -
    Hackers use injection attacks to bypass firewalls and take control
    of web applications so that they can grab sensitive data or use the
    site to distribute malware to users. While the most common type of
    this attack is SQL injection, injection attacks can target any
    interpreter used by the web application, including ASP, LDAP, PHP,
    shells, SMTP, SOAP, and XPath. This talk will demonstrate step by
    step how injection attacks work and show how to eliminate injection
    vulnerabilities with secure programming techniques.

## May Meeting

  - Cross Site Request Forgery Vulnerability In Depth Dive In - <i>Marco
    M. Morana, Technologist/Author, TISO
    [Citigroup](http://www.citibank.com/us/index.htm)</i>

<!-- end list -->

  -
    <b>The presentation is available
    [herein](https://www.owasp.org/images/b/b5/OWASP_CSRF_May_27_DRAFT.pdf).</b>

<!-- end list -->

  -
    CSRF vulnerabilities can be exploited to perform un-authorized
    transactions on behalf of a logged in user by exploiting the trust
    between the browser session and the web application. Such
    un-authorized transactions include transfer of funds in an on-line
    banking application, denial of service through forced logout, data
    tampering and information disclosure as well as un-authorized
    access. The in-depth session will cover how and where CSRF happen,
    how can be identified (e.g. tested for) and prevented with the
    adoption of effective countermeasures. [OWASP
    documentation](https://www.owasp.org/index.php/Cross-Site_Request_Forgery)
    will be covered in detail as well as CSRF tools such as [CSRF
    guard](https://www.owasp.org/index.php/CSRF_Guard)

## April Meeting

  - [The New Face of Cybercrime
    Movie](http://www.fortify.com/cybercrime/) Premiere And Follow Up
    Discussion.

<!-- end list -->

  -
    <i>Major Bruce C. Jenkins, (USAF, Ret.)- Security Practice Director
    at [Fortify Software](http:///www.fortify.com) Inc.</i>

`    Meeting Sponsor `[<http://www.owasp.org/images/4/4b/Fortify_1.jpg>](http://www.fortify.com)`     `

  -
    The revealing documentary features candid interviews with criminal
    hackers and those industry executives taking steps against their
    persistent attacks. Learn the shocking exposure of IT systems and
    how to address the changes.

## March Meeting

  - Source Code Reviews and Open Source Static Analysis Tools -
    <i>Allison Shubert, Security Specialist,
    [Citigroup](http://www.citibank.com/us/index.htm)</i>

<!-- end list -->

  -
    Static analysis is the process of analyzing software for security
    vulnerabilities. Static analysis can be a costly and time consuming
    process, but is a link in the chain for producing secure software.
    Join us as we explorer building a business case for static analysis
    and review the current open source static analysis tools.

<!-- end list -->

  - An Introduction to Web Proxies - <i>Blaine Wilson, Technology
    Information Security Officer,
    [Citigroup](http://www.citibank.com/us/index.htm)</i>

<!-- end list -->

  -
    Web proxies will be explained and the group will be shown how to
    install and configure WebScarab. WebScarab operates as an
    intercepting proxy, allowing the operator to review and modify
    requests created by the browser before they are sent to the server,
    and to review and modify responses returned from the server before
    they are received by the browser. The presentation will include
    several examples of intercepting, reviewing and modifying HTTP
    requests and responses.

## February Meeting

  - OWASP Top Ten Vulnerabilities and Software Root Causes: Solving The
    Software Security Problem From an Information Security Perspective -
    <i>Marco Morana ([Citigroup](http://www.citibank.com/us/index.htm),
    TISO, OWASP Chapter Leader, Security Blogger)</i>

<!-- end list -->

  -
    **The presentation is available
    [herein](https://www.owasp.org/images/e/eb/OWASP_Top_10_And_Root_Causes_Cincy_Feb_26_08_Final.pdf).**

<!-- end list -->

  -
    Before to diagnose the disease and provide the cure a doctor looks
    at the root causes of the sickness, the risk factors and the
    symptoms. In case of application security the majority of the root
    causes of the security issues are in-secure software, the risk
    factors can be found in how bad the application is designed, the
    software is coded and the application is tested and the symptoms in
    how the application vulnerabilities are exposed. The presentation
    will articulate the problem of secure software, the costs, the
    software security risks and how these are typically dealt with by
    most organizations. Solving the problem of software security
    requires people, process and tools. From the information security
    perspective we will look at ways to enforcing software security by
    looking at risks that threat agents (attacks) can exploit
    vulnerabilities due to insecure software and the resulting impact on
    company assets. Implementing a set of software security requirements
    is the best place to start to address the root causes of web
    application vulnerabilities. With a categorization of web
    application vulnerabilities as weakness in application security
    controls, it is easier to describe the root cases as coding errors.
    A good place to start documenting software security requirements is
    the OWASP Top Ten, for each of these vulnerabilities we will discuss
    the threat, the risk factors, the software root causes of the
    vulnerability, how to find if you are vulnerable and if you are
    which countermeasures need to be implemented.

## January Meeting

  - Introduction to OWASP- <i>Marco Morana
    ([Citigroup](http://www.citibank.com/us/index.htm), TISO, OWASP
    Chapter Leader, Security Blogger)</i>

<!-- end list -->

  -
    **The presentation is available
    [herein](https://www.owasp.org/images/5/53/Introduction_to_OWASP.pdf).**

<!-- end list -->

  -
    OWASP plays a special role in the application security ecosystem, is
    vehicle for sharing knowledge and lead best practices across
    organizations. As an example OWASP is a community of people
    passionate about application security. We all share a vision of a
    world where you can confidently trust the software you use. One of
    our primary missions is to make application security visible so that
    people can make informed decisions about risk. OWASP is the most
    authoritative and resourceful application security organization to
    share and open source tools, documents, basic information,
    guidelines, presentations projects worldwide. The OWASP Top Ten list
    includes a reference for most critical web application security
    flaws compiled by a variety of security experts from around the
    world. The list is recommended by U.S. Federal Trade Commission, the
    U.S. Defense Information Systems Agency and is adopted by Payment
    Card Industry (PCI) as a requirement for security code
    reviews.Through OWASP you’ll find a rich community of people to
    connect through mailing lists, participating in the local chapters,
    and attending conferences. The people involved in OWASP recognize
    the world’s software is most likely getting less and less secure. As
    we increase our interconnections and use more and more powerful
    computing technologies, the likelihood of introducing
    vulnerabilities increases exponentially. Whatever the internet
    becomes, OWASP can play a key role in making sure that it is a place
    we can trust. This meeting will provide an opportunity to meet local
    OWASP affiliates and members and know more about how to contribute
    to OWASP.

<!-- end list -->

  - Webgoat and Webscarab Security Tools Use Cases - Blaine Wilson
    ([Citigroup](http://www.citibank.com/us/index.htm), TISO)

<!-- end list -->

  -
    The presentation will show how to use popular OWASP tools such as
    Webscarab web proxy and Webgoat to learn about common security
    vulnerabilities in applications

# About OWASP

The OWASP Foundation is a 501(c)3 non-profit organization incorporated
in the United States of America. OWASP's all-volunteer participants
produce free, professional quality, open-source documentation, tools,
and standards. Consult the [how OWASP
works](https://www.owasp.org/index.php/How_OWASP_Works) web page for
more information about projects and governance.

## OWASP Membership

OWASP is an open source project dedicated to finding and fighting the
causes of insecure software. All of our materials are free and offered
under an open source license, so you do not have to become a member to
use them or participate in our projects, mailing lists, conferences,
meetings or other activities. On the other hand OWASP rely membership
fees and sponsorship to support his activities. There are also unique
benefits to become a corporate member such as the use of OWASP materials
within your organization without the restrictions associated with the
various open source licenses. OWASP individual members also get
discounts to security conferences and other perks. For more information
consult the [OWASP
Membership](https://www.owasp.org/index.php/Membership) web page.

<headertabs></headertabs>

[Category:OWASP Chapter](Category:OWASP_Chapter "wikilink")
[Category:Ohio](Category:Ohio "wikilink")