[\< Back to the CISO Survey main page](OWASP_CISO_Survey "wikilink")
__NOTOC__

# Foreword

There is no question that application security has become a serious
concern in almost every organization and industry. And more and more,
application security is taking center stage in the struggle to keep
information systems safe and the stored data protected. OWASP created
this survey to provide senior managers with an opportunity to compare
their organizations with others on important application security issues
and gain insights for making key decisions. The questionnaire consisted
of 26 in-depth questions concerning security investments and challenges,
threats and risks, tools and technology, and governance and control
within the various surveyed organizations. This research report with the
results is publicly available on the owasp.org website. OWASP will be
further refining our CISO survey in 2014 and increasing the collected
data sets. In case you are interested in participating or providing
feedback and insights, please provide your contact information, and we
will contact you shortly. We take confidentiality very seriously and
make sure that all personal identifiable individual and company
information is NOT disclosed nor published in the survey report.

This survey report is in sync with the recently released the OWASP
Application Security Guide for CISOs. These two projects are designed to
harmoniously complement each other, the CISO report providing the
tactical intelligence and the CISO guide offering the guidance on how
CISOs can act on this intelligence to achieve the optimal information
security programs for their organizations.


With best regards,
On behalf of the Project Team,

Tobias Gondrom
OWASP Global Board Member

[Category:OWASP CISO Survey
Project](Category:OWASP_CISO_Survey_Project "wikilink")