[\< Back to the CISO Survey](OWASP_CISO_Survey "wikilink") __NOTOC__

# 3\. Tools and technology

## Significance of OWASP guidance, books and white papers

To better understand how organizations benefit from existing OWASP
activities and what is most useful for organizations, we also asked the
CISOs what OWASP activities serve them well, and which ones are more or
less significant. For data analysis we designed a weighted scoring that
would rank based on how many rated activities as extremely significant,
very significant, significant, somewhat significant or not significant.
Most significant help are OWASP projects for awareness programs and
awareness material, with a weighted score of 140 and about 70% stating
that OWASP is extremely significant, very significant or significant for
this area. While staff attending local chapter meetings or AppSec
conferences is still important, with a score of 54 and more than 30% of
the surveyed CISOs rating this activity as extremely significant, very
significant or significant.

![<File:CISO_Survey_2013_9_OWASP_significance.png>](CISO_Survey_2013_9_OWASP_significance.png
"File:CISO_Survey_2013_9_OWASP_significance.png")

## Top-5 most useful OWASP projects for organizations from the perspective of the CISO.

The 5 most useful OWASP projects from the standpoint of a CISO are the
1. OWASP Top-10 2. Cheatsheets 3. Development Guide 4. Secure Coding
Practices Quick Reference 5. Application Security FAQ With the Top-10 a
clear leading number one position, while the other four projects are
relatively equal in their rating and basically sharing second place.

![<File:CISO_Survey_2013_10_Top-5_Projects.png>](CISO_Survey_2013_10_Top-5_Projects.png
"File:CISO_Survey_2013_10_Top-5_Projects.png")

## Design of the information security management program

As information security programs vary widely across organizations, we
asked the CISO which key elements are part of their programs:

![<File:CISO_Survey_2013_11_ISM_programs.png>](CISO_Survey_2013_11_ISM_programs.png
"File:CISO_Survey_2013_11_ISM_programs.png")

Naturally, security requirements, guidelines, security training and risk
management were prevalent parts of information security management
programs. Interestingly, using a secure software development lifecycle
did rank fairly low as a part of the CISOsâ€™ current security management
programs. This finding might also be an indication for a lack of using
an application security strategy or maturity model to determine which
domains to focus on and which SDLC activities to implement. (see also
the [CISO AppSec Guide: Application Security
Program](CISO_AppSec_Guide:_Application_Security_Program "wikilink"))

## Two thirds use technical tools to support their application security management process

![<File:CISO_Survey_2013_12_process_tools.png>](CISO_Survey_2013_12_process_tools.png
"File:CISO_Survey_2013_12_process_tools.png")

## For example, we found the following tools are used by organizations:

![<File:CISO_Survey_2013_13_IS_tools.png>](CISO_Survey_2013_13_IS_tools.png
"File:CISO_Survey_2013_13_IS_tools.png")

[Category:OWASP CISO Survey
Project](Category:OWASP_CISO_Survey_Project "wikilink")