[\< Back to the Application Security Guide For
CISOs](Application_Security_Guide_For_CISOs "wikilink")

__NOTOC__

# Introduction

Among application security stakeholders, Chief Information Security
Officers (CISOs) are responsible for application security from
governance, compliance and risk perspectives. This guide seeks to help
CISOs manage application security programs according to CISO roles,
responsibilities, perspectives and needs. Application security best
practices and OWASP resources are referenced throughout this guide.
OWASP is a non profit organization whose mission is "making application
security visible and empowering application security stakeholders with
the right information for managing application security risks".

This CISO guide is written to help CISOs that are responsible for
managing application security programs from the information security and
risk management perspectives. From the information security perspective,
there is a need to protect the organization assets such as the citizen,
client and customer sensitive data, the databases where this data is
stored, the network infrastructure where the database servers reside and
last but not least, the applications and software used to access and
process this data. Besides business and user data, applications and
software are among the assets that CISOs seek to protect. Some of these
applications and software provide business critical functions to
customers that generate revenues for the organization. Examples include
applications and software that provide customers with business services
as well as applications and software that are sold as products to the
clients. In the case where software applications are considered business
critical information assets, these should receive a specific focus in
human resources, training, processes, standards and tools. The scope of
this guide is the security of web applications and the security of the
components of the architecture such as the security of web servers,
application servers and databases. This does not include other aspects
of security that are not related to the specific application. Such as
the security of the network infrastructure that supports the
applications and constitutes a valued asset whose security properties
such as confidentiality, integrity and availability need to be protected
as well.

## Objectives

This guide helps CISOs manage application security risks by considering
the exposure from emerging threats and compliance requirements. This
guide helps:

  - Make application security visible to CISOs
  - Assure compliance of applications with security regulations for
    privacy, data protection and information security
  - Prioritize vulnerability remediation based upon risk exposure to the
    business
  - Provide guidance for building and managing application security
    processes
  - Analyze cyber-threats against applications and identify
    countermeasures
  - Institute application security training for developers and managers
  - Measure and manage application security risks and processes

## Target Audience

  - Chief Information Security Officers (CISOs)
  - Senior security management
  - Senior technology management

[Category:OWASP Application Security Guide For CISO
Project](Category:OWASP_Application_Security_Guide_For_CISO_Project "wikilink")