[\< Back to the Application Security Guide For
CISOs](Application_Security_Guide_For_CISOs "wikilink")

__NOTOC__

# Foreword

This guide has been supported by the OWASP project reboot program and
developed in alignment with OWASP core values reflected in the openness
of the content, innovative ideas and concepts, global reach to the
application security community and integrity of the contents that are
published as strictly vendor neutral and un-biased by specific
commercial interests. This guide has also been developed in respect of
the OWASP core values such as to “Promote the implementation of and
promote compliance with standards, procedures, controls for application
security” and the OWASP principles of delivering free and open content,
not for profit interests and a risk based approach for improving
application security. The leader of the OWASP Application Security Guide
for CISOS project is Marco Morana that developed the original contents
of this guide with contributions from Colin Watson, Eoin Keary, Tobias
Gondrom and Stephanie Tan. This project is being developed by the OWASP
in parallel with the CISO Survey project lead by Tobias Gondrom

The objective is to run these two projects in sync and use the results
of the [**2013 CISO
Survey**](https://www.surveymonkey.com/s/CISO2013Survey) to tailor the
guide to the specific CISOs needs by highlighting which OWASP
projects/resources address these needs. The November 2013 version of the
OWASP Application Security Guide for CISOs was presented at the [2013
AppSec USA Conference](http://appsecusa.org/2013/), held in New York
City on November 18-23, 2013.

[Category:OWASP_Application_Security_Guide_For_CISO_Project](Category:OWASP_Application_Security_Guide_For_CISO_Project "wikilink")