[\< Back to the Application Security Guide For
CISOs](Application_Security_Guide_For_CISOs "wikilink")

# About OWASP

## Description

OWASP is a global open community dedicated to enabling organizations to
develop, purchase, and maintain applications that can be trusted. OWASP
builds documents, tools, teaching environments, guidelines, checklists,
and other materials to help organizations improve their capability to
produce secure code. All of the OWASP tools, documents, forums, and
chapters are free and open to anyone interested in improving application
security.

OWASP was formed in 2001, in an entirely organic fashion, when a group
of security professionals came to realize how terribly insecure the way
we develop our web applications was. The initial goal was deemed to be
modest: write a guide for developers, which would document secure
software development practices. While the initial effort was meant to
last a few weeks, it came out to several hundred pages. When released,
the OWASP Guide to Building Secure Web Applications was an instant
success. The OWASP Guide Series now encompasses six documents.

OWASP is a place where good people gather to help increase the awareness
of the security problems in applications. It is a grass-roots effort,
with the driving force being the people who are dealing with these
problems every day, and wanting to lend a hand to change the situation
for the better. The OWASP Foundation is a not-for-profit entity that
ensures the project's long-term success.

The OWASP Foundation is a US 501(c)(3) not-for-profit organization.
OWASP Europe VZW is a non-profit organization registered in Belgium.

## Participation

Everyone is welcome to participate in our forums, projects, chapters,
and conferences. OWASP is a fantastic place to learn about application
security, to network, and even to build your reputation as an expert.
All OWASP's documents, tools and other resources are published using
open source licenses, and are available free of charge.

### Local Chapters

OWASP has almost 200 local chapters around the world. Chapter meetings
are always free to attend, are vendor neutral and the presentations are
made available free-of-charge on each chapter's web page. The meetings
help foster local discussion of application security around the world.

To find your nearest local chapter, information on how to start a new
one, and how to run a chapter see
<https://www.owasp.org/index.php/OWASP_Chapter> and
<https://www.owasp.org/index.php/Chapter_Leader_Handbook>

### AppSec Conferences

For the last ten years, OWASP AppSec conferences bring together
industry, government, security researchers, and practitioners to discuss
the state of the art in application security. Global AppSec conferences
are held annually in North America, Latin America, Europe, and Asia
Pacific. Additionally, regional events are held in locations such as
Brazil, China, India, Ireland, Israel, and Washington D.C. Presentation
slides and video recordings are available free of charge on the OWASP
website after each conference.

For upcoming global and regional events see
<https://www.owasp.org/index.php/Category:OWASP_AppSec_Conference>

## Citations

To find almost 80 national and international Legislation, standards,
guidelines, committees and industry codes of practice that refer to
OWASP see <https://www.owasp.org/index.php/Industry:Citations>

## Helping to Support OWASP's Mission

Many organizations have been corporate or education supporters. many
more have encourage their employees to contribute time and resources to
OWASP Projects.

OWASP has also produced six guidance documents for other groups,
suggesting how they could best support OWASP's mission. These are known
as the OWASP Application Security Codes of Conduct, for government
bodies, educational institutions, standards groups, trade organizations,
certifying bodies, and development organizations. The Codes of Conduct
can be downloaded from the project page
<https://www.owasp.org/index.php/OWASP_Codes_of_Conduct>

## Contact

Our global address for general correspondence is:

`FAO Kate Hartmann`
`OWASP Foundation`
`1200-C Agora Drive, #232`
`Bel Air, MD 21014`
`United States`

The European correspondence address is below:

`OWASP Europe VZW`
`Leinstraat 104A`
`B-9660 Opbrakel`
`Belgium`

Or phone Kate Hartmann at +1 301-275-9403 or use the contact form at
<http://sl.owasp.org/contactus>

[Category:OWASP_Application_Security_Guide_For_CISO_Project](Category:OWASP_Application_Security_Guide_For_CISO_Project "wikilink")