[\< Back to the CISO Survey](OWASP_CISO_Survey "wikilink") __NOTOC__

# Conclusions

Due to the evolving threat landscape and increased pressure from audit,
legal and compliance, in the last decade, investments in application
security have been a growing proportion of overall information security
and information technology budgets. In our 2013 OWASP CISO Survey,
nearly 90% of respondents indicated that application security investment
would either increase or remain constant. Nevertheless, making the
business case for increasing the budget for application security remains
today one of many challenges of a CISO and security manager, because of
competing objectives like the prioritization of spending for development
of new application features and platforms (e.g. mobile devices),
initiatives to expand service uptake or profitability, and marketing to
attract new customers and retain existing customers.

In today’s economic climate and ever changing threat landscape, it is
increasingly important for CISOs to formulate the right security
strategies for their organizations and articulate the "business case"
for investment in application security and focus on the programs that
have the most impact on the overall security of the organization and
reducing risks.

That means, that today’s CISOs need to navigate and master many
challenges, the most pressing among them are: developing the right
security skills within their organizations, achieving awareness for
security risks among their developers and management teams, managing
with limited budgets and adjusting to constant organizational changes.
And in turn these challenges shape the key priorities for CISOs for the
near and medium future: to improve awareness and training, transfer
security awareness into program execution and budgeting, introduce or
improve their secure development lifecycle and overall strengthen
application security across the system landscape to counter the
dramatically increasing external threats to application security.

When comparing the new data with spending reports, there also appears to
still be a disconnect between organization's perceived threats of rising
application security threats on the one hand and a yet still large
spending on network and infrastructure security in absolute and relative
numbers. Typically, additional budget allocation for application
security includes the development of changes in the application to fix
the causes of the incident (e.g. fixing vulnerabilities) as well as
rolling out additional security measures such as preventive and
detective controls for mitigating risks of hacking and malware and
limiting the likelihood and impact of future data breach incidents.
Still, even with limited budgets, CISOs can improve their security
posture by focusing on the most critical risks of an organization and
leveraging commonly available best practices and free tools to
strengthen their organization and systems.

From a fear perspective – leveraging security incidents - it is true
that CISOs can also exploit the momentum, being this either a negative
or positive event. But this is part of a reactive risk management
approach looking backward at past events and low maturity in dealing
with future risks. Often application security spending can be triggered
by a negative event such as a security incident, since this shifts
senior management's perception of risk. However, CISOs should find that
using a two year roadmap to drive security investment would be more
effective in setting the appropriate security budgets.

In the case of experienced security breaches or incidents, the money is
probably being spent to limit the damage, such as to remediate the
incident and implement additional countermeasures. The main question
then is what further investment in application security will reduce the
likelihood and impact of another similar incident happening in the
future. One approach is to focus on applications that might become a
target for future attacks.

To help developing a more forward looking security strategy, many
organizations will be looking at introducing application security
management systems and/or maturity models over the coming 12 months. A
trend that will allow organizations to further grow in maturity and
improve their understanding of the security risks they are facing and
how to best allocate their limited resources.

Concluding, we hope the sister project, the OWASP CISO Guide, can help
the CISO with practical guidance on how to deal with many of these key
findings and to decide the right security investments and strategies for
their organizations going forward.

## Register to receive updates: OWASP is planning a new CISO survey and report in 2014

If you like to receive future releases of the OWASP CISO Survey and
related CISO projects, you can register your email address here:
<https://docs.google.com/forms/d/1DBYIpWcx6IAZNHOXufdkLZKLIQXetwgbxxd7h_mqWN0/viewform>

Your contact details will be kept strictly confidential and only used to
send you updates about new releases of OWASP CISO projects and
invitations to participate in the CISO Survey. And you can of course
unsubscribe from this service at any time.

[Category:OWASP CISO Survey
Project](Category:OWASP_CISO_Survey_Project "wikilink")