[\< Back to the CISO Survey](OWASP_CISO_Survey "wikilink") __NOTOC__

# 1\. Threats and risks

As with all good security strategies, we were first interested in the
trends of potential sources of security threats to organizations and how
CISOs are addressing them.

## External threats are on the rise

More than 70% of CISOs noted that internal threats are staying pretty
much on the same level, while over 80% can see external threats clearly
on the rise. It appears CISOs are more and more confident about their
internal controls addressing internal security threats, like insiders
stealing data or abusing systems. This can be due to a variety of
reasons, better internal policies and controls and tools that enforce
these policies and protect against malicious agents within an
organization. While on the other hand, external threats seem to be
increasing dramatically. This might be due to a variety of reasons: An
increase in awareness due to more disclosures about security breaches by
external sources, the fact that the IT systems of organizations are more
and more exposed to the Internet and with that to external threat
agents, an increased number of external malicious actors and potentially
an upgrade in the skills and weaponized attack tools of potential
attackers.

![<File:CISO_Survey_2013_1_external_internal.png>](CISO_Survey_2013_1_external_internal.png
"File:CISO_Survey_2013_1_external_internal.png")

## Application risks are advancing to center stage

When reviewing which areas are the main areas of risk for their
organizations, CISOs were very clear that application security concerns
are now taking center stage in their risk management. The CISOs see more
than 50% of their security risks coming from application security: The
remaining 13% of “Other” were attributed to a mix of factors, in many
cases to people centric risks and social engineering, but also to
physical access controls and foreign states knocking on the door wanting
critical data.

![<File:CISO_Survey_2013_2_risk_areas.png>](CISO_Survey_2013_2_risk_areas.png
"File:CISO_Survey_2013_2_risk_areas.png")

And furthermore, application security risks are increasing, while
infrastructure issues are mostly stable.

![<File:CISO_Survey_2013_3_risk_trends.png>](CISO_Survey_2013_3_risk_trends.png
"File:CISO_Survey_2013_3_risk_trends.png")

## New threats to web applications are negatively impacting organizations

Based on the increase of application security risks, we were also
wondering about their effects and whether organizations are seeing
negative impacts from new threats to web applications. And the majority
of CISOs could in fact clearly confirm that these threats are having
negative impacts for their companies. Deeper discussions found that
there are new threats due to technologies ranging from Social media, Web
2.0 and Cloud technologies like Software-as-a-Service, but also that
attacks have increased in volume and sophistication, forcing companies
to upgrade their security posture accordingly to counter more
sophisticated attacks like spear-phishing, APTs, exposure of customer
data and fraud.

![<File:CISO_Survey_2013_4_impacts.png>](CISO_Survey_2013_4_impacts.png
"File:CISO_Survey_2013_4_impacts.png")

## Every fifth company experienced a security incident or data breach in the last 12 months.

About one in five of the companies did experience one or more data
breaches because of a web application security incident in the last 12
months. To some degree this can be seen at odds with various other
reports that have higher or lower percentages of security breaches. This
may be due to different types of survey populations, e.g. more SMEs vs.
large corporations, and also be accounted for by varying interpretations
of the definition of an application security incident. However, even the
figure of one in five companies having an application security incident
or breach is a high risk, turning the focus of CISOs to application
security risks.

![<File:CISO_Survey_2013_5_breaches.png>](CISO_Survey_2013_5_breaches.png
"File:CISO_Survey_2013_5_breaches.png")

Further analyzing these trends, we also asked CISO what they perceived
as the top five sources of application security risks within their
organizations. Interestingly, a lack of budget for security initiatives
came in only on the 4th place. The most pressing issue is the lack of
awareness of application security issues within the organization. A
notion we find across a variety of questions and also reflected in the
priorities for CISO going forward as you will discover in the following
sections.

<center>

<table>
<caption><strong>Top 5 CISO Application Security Risks</strong></caption>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td><ol>
<li>Lack of awareness of application security issues within the organization</li>
<li>Insecure source code development</li>
<li>Poor/inadequate testing methodologies</li>
<li>Lack of budget to support application security initiatives</li>
<li>Staffing (e.g., lack of security skills within team)</li>
</ol></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

</center>

[Category:OWASP CISO Survey
Project](Category:OWASP_CISO_Survey_Project "wikilink")