[\< Back to the CISO Survey main page](OWASP_CISO_Survey "wikilink")
__NOTOC__

# Introduction

Over the last years, we noticed that application security risks and
threats have been on the rise and OWASP has started the CISO survey
project to gather intelligence and provide it to CISOs and senior
managers in order to improve their security strategies, assess their
priorities and learn from their peers about what works best protecting
web and application security in organizations across various industries.
Although this first data set has already been collected from more than a
hundred senior information security managers from around the world, to
some degree the current data set was too small to be broken down into
country or industry specific findings. Having said that, we found that
on an anecdotal level, many of the findings appear to be consistent
across a multitude of industries. OWASP will, in the coming year 2014,
significantly further improve the breadth and depth of the current CISO
survey and conduct it with a much wider audience around the globe. A
number of findings support common assumptions, but others clearly show
where assumed general expectations have been oversimplified. The report
provides insight into which risks and threats are on the rise, which
challenges are most pressing for CISOs and their organizations and what
techniques are particularly useful to counter application security
risks.

## The Survey methodology and data collection

The survey questionnaire consists of 26 comprehensive questions, across
four domain areas:

  - Investments and challenges,
  - Threats and risks,
  - Tools and technology,
  - Governance and control.

The surveyed population mostly consists of:

  - Chief Information Security Officers (CISOs)
  - Senior security management

The population of surveyed CISOs was invited across a number of various
CISO events, with a large portion of participants outside the common
OWASP community. So we aimed at minimizing any OWASP specific biases,
still, some small bias may remain as it is an OWASP project after all. A
good number of more than a hundred CISOs and senior security managers
worldwide participated in this comprehensive survey.

## Objectives

This report helps CISOs manage application security risks by considering
the exposure from emerging threats and compliance requirements. This
report helps:

  - Make application security visible to CISOs and help them to make
    informed decisions on priorities and application security programs
  - Provide strategic intelligence on which security risks are of the
    highest priority across organizations
  - Provide tactical intelligence on best practices and free projects
    the CISO can leverage to improve their security programs.

## Register to receive future updates and invitations for OWASP CISO projects

If you like to receive information about future releases of the OWASP
CISO Survey and related CISO projects, you can register your email
address here:

<https://docs.google.com/forms/d/1DBYIpWcx6IAZNHOXufdkLZKLIQXetwgbxxd7h_mqWN0/viewform>

Your contact details will be kept strictly confidential and only used to
send you updates about new releases of OWASP CISO projects and
invitations to participate in the CISO Survey. And you can of course
unsubscribe from this service at any time.

[Category:OWASP CISO Survey
Project](Category:OWASP_CISO_Survey_Project "wikilink")