-----

## Upcoming Meetings

**January 4, 2018 at 11:30 AM**

All meetings are held at SecureState (23340 Miles Road Bedford Heights,
OH 44128)

**Presentation: How to Implement a Security Awareness Training Program**

The yearly Security Week at Hyland Software is the culmination of their
security awareness program. Presenters Márion Nepomuceno and Josh Gatka
will share its history, details, decisions and lessons that continue to
lead them towards an increasingly successful program not only during
SecWeek, but every other week of the year.

**Speaker Bios:**

**Márion Nepomuceno** - Márion works as a software security engineer at
Hyland Software, where he creates and delivers educational sessions,
internal testing tools and frameworks, organizes corporate events
surrounding information security, and works closely with the Development
and Quality Assurance staff on improving their secure coding and testing
skills.

**Josh Gatka** - Josh works as a security evangelist at Hyland Software,
where he trains and educates industry professionals on how to protect
themselves and their organization from today’s advanced cyberthreats.

-----

We are always looking for new speakers to present at our meetings\! If
you are interested in speaking at an upcoming OWASP meeting, please
contact Courtney Satink at <csatink@securestate.com> with your idea.

## Past Events:

**Presentation: Hands-on Demonstration of Common Web Application
Penetration Testing Tools**

***Abstract:*** Web application penetration testing tools are a critical
element to validating the security of web applications. These tools
typically work by injecting a series of malicious payloads within
insertion points in HTTP requests and analyze deviations within
responses returned by the application to identify the existence of
vulnerabilities.

Presenter Ryan Brown will deliver a hands-on demonstration of the
following tools and review in depth some of the functionalities and
features they possess:

  - Burp Suite: produced by Portswigger is the industry leading tool for
    web application penetration testing. This powerful framework
    provides support for a series of useful functionalities including
    but not limited to traffic interception, application mapping,
    fuzzing and crawling as well as automated scanning.
  - SQLMap: an open source penetration testing tool designed to automate
    the identification and exploitation of SQL injection
    vulnerabilities.
  - Commix: like SQLMap, is a testing tool designed to automate the
    identification and exploitation of command injection
    vulnerabilities.

***Speaker Bio:*** Ryan Brown is a Red Team Security and Research
Analyst at SecureState specializing in web application penetration
testing. In his tenure with SecureState, Ryan has worked with
organizations across a variety of industries, providing him with the
expertise and knowledge of the security posture that exists within web
applications.

-----

**Presentation: Warning Ahead: Security Storms are Brewing in Your
JavaScript**

***Abstract:*** JavaScript controls our lives – we use it to zoom in and
out of a map, to automatically schedule doctor appointments and to play
online games. But have we ever properly considered the security state of
this scripting language?

Before dismissing the (in)security posture of JavaScript on the grounds
of a client-side problem, consider the impact of JavaScript
vulnerability exploitation to the enterprise: from stealing server-side
data to infecting users with malware. Hackers are beginning to recognize
this new playground and are quickly adding JavaScript exploitation tools
to their Web attack arsenal.

In this talk we will explore the vulnerabilities behind Javascript,
including:

  - A new class of vulnerabilities unique only to JavaScript
  - Vulnerabilities in 3rd-party platforms which are exploited through
    JavaScript code
  - A new set of vulnerabilities enabled by HTML5

***Speaker Bio:*** Scott McBain has been developing and directing the
development of security-conscious commercial applications for 20 years.
He has held a variety of roles from developer, DBA /Unix sysadmin,
development manager, to cloud/infrastructure architect. Prior to coming
to Checkmarx, he designed and implemented cloud environments for
Accuity, a unit of Reed Elsevier. He holds a BA in Economics and
Classical Languages and Literatures from the University of Michigan.

-----

**Presentation: An Intro to Transport Layer Security**

***Abstract:*** The web (and the Internet at large) is undergoing a slow
but steady transition to the default use of encrypted protocols rather
than their less secure cleartext counterparts. This trend has resulted
in the sharply increasing popularity of Transport Layer Security (TLS).
Mozilla recently found that 50% of pages are now loaded over HTTPS,
browsers have begun to warn users when they are using unencrypted
connections for sensitive operations, and Let's Encrypt has made
obtaining certificates free and easy.

As the barriers to TLS adoption fall, it is unavoidable that web
developers and administrators will need a working knowledge of modern
cryptography. Presenter Travis Suel will cover the high-level concepts
needed to develop and maintain modern, secure TLS configurations
including public and symmetric-key cryptography.

***Speaker Bio:*** Speaker Bio: Travis Suel is a senior analyst at
SecureState who manages SecureState's web and mobile application
security services. Travis's background consists of systems and web
development in addition to experience deploying and adminstering web
applications and their supporting software (web servers, databases,
etc.).

-----

**Presentation: Threat Modeling**

***Abstract:*** How do you know how to build your application securely,
or what to look for when you are performing a security assessment of an
application? One critical part of figuring this out is the application’s
threat model. Also, there are security issues that other analysis
techniques like penetration testing and code review cannot find. Threat
modeling can be used to discover design weaknesses that cannot be found
using other analysis techniques.

This talk details a threat modeling process and methodology to teach the
audience how to identify the assets, security controls, and threat
agents for a given system. The talk goes on to show how this information
can be used to create a prioritized list of test cases for other
security activities, as well as find design weaknesses and propose
appropriate mitigations.

***Speaker Bio:*** Amit Sethi is a Senior Principal Consultant and the
Director of the Mobile Practice and the Advanced Penetration Testing
Practice at Cigital. He has over 12 years of experience in the security
industry as well as a Master’s degree in Cryptography. He has extensive
experience performing penetration testing, source code reviews and
architectural risk analysis of a wide variety of systems as well as
helping organizations solve complex security problems.

-----

**Presentation: A Touch(ID) of iOS Security**

***Abstract:*** As mobile devices become more and more prevalent in our
lives, the clash between security and usability moves to the forefront.
Apple integrated TouchID into its main mobile devices products
(iPhones/iPads). In Apple’s controlled fashion, access to the TouchID
was unavailable at first and has been expanded over subsequent releases.
With this expansion is a new world of authentication possible?

In this talk, we will explore the architecture of TouchID and the how
Apple is pushing biometrics into the forefront of consumer-based
products. As companies start embracing biometrics, there are standard
client-side authentication risks and TouchID Implementations risk. We
will explore the architecture and common implementations, to understand
possible hidden risks, and how to strengthen the implementations.

***Speaker Bio:*** Jamie Bowser is a Technical Strategist who has over
20 years of information technology experience in a variety of roles
including Web Application developer/architect, Unix Administrator, and
Systems Analyst. Mr. Bowser has worked with a number of Fortune 500
companies, including Morgan Stanley, JP Morgan Chase, and Key Corp. As a
Technical Strategist at Cigital, he has overseen and performed Mobile
Strategic Consulting, Mobile Application Penetration Testing and Mobile
Application Source Code reviews of systems built from a few thousand
lines of code to systems containing tens of millions of lines of code
(Java, .Net, and Objective-C). Currently, Mr. Bowser focuses on iOS
Static and Dynamic testing tool development.

-----

**Presentation: Awareness Training: Failure to Engage is Failure to
Secure**

***Abstract:*** We call it security awareness training, but all we ever
give our employees is regurgitated knowledge. Their passwords suck,
don’t trust user input, and make sure you complete the secure coding
standard checklist. Mix in some yearly reviews of policies and
procedures and you have the perfect recipe for an employee who stopped
listening hours ago. You don't truly learn something until you
understand "why" and that comes when employees are engaged and
motivated. This is my take on how to engage through gaming, running your
own internal CTF with OWASP Security Shepherd, pentest training with
OWASP ZAP, and why it works.

***Speaker Bio:*** Mike Woolard is a security analyst who has worked in
the IT field for 17+ years. A broad background from helpdesk to
sysadmin, system engineer, networking, DB and development work. Most of
Mike's work now centers around pentests and risk assessments, but an
integral part will always be awareness training. An active member in
various local security groups including NEOISF, OWASP, infragard and the
Information Security Summit.

-----

**Presentation: Securing Severless Apps**

***Abstract:*** Thanks to a combination of Amazon Web Services (AWS)
technologies, it's now possible to host certain web applications without
the need for a central server. The JavaScript AWS SDK allows endpoints
to interact directly with data, which opens the door for completely
client-driven apps. However, the complexity quickly increases when we
consider security - how we manage access and encrypt data effectively.
This presentation will cover the challenges encountered during the
creation of a real life serverless application, and how the team used a
combination of local and cloud hosted solutions to achieve their goals.

***Speaker Bios:*** Steve Ocepek - has been working with security
technologies for over a decade, with a focus on network security that
has included five patents. He has presented at Defcon, Black Hat, and
RSA, and has built security programs for both government and Fortune 500
companies.

Devin Shimola - has recently joined the security and software
development community as a developer for SecureState after graduating
from Baldwin Wallace University. He has been working with Amazon Web
Services to create client-side browser based applications while also
working in .Net to create tools to bridge the gap between cloud services
and legacy applications.

-----

**Presentation: Tools and Procedures for Securing .NET Applications**

***Abstract:*** With security attacks on the rise, protecting your
applications and data is more of a necessity than ever before. We’ll
discuss some of the features provided by Visual Studio and the .Net
framework, such as Dotfuscator, SignTool, and encryption tools. In
addition we'll look at other protective measures such as early intrusion
detection, mitigation, and Social Engineering. These are topics not
typically covered in other security presentations or material.

***Speaker Bio:*** Sam Nasr has been a software developer since 1995,
focusing mostly on Microsoft technologies. Having achieved multiple
certifications from Microsoft (MCAD, MCTS(MOSS), and MCT), Sam develops,
teaches, and tours the country to present various topics in .Net
Framework. He is also actively involved with the Cleveland C\#/VB.Net
User Group, where he has been the group leader since 2003. In addition,
he also started the Cleveland WPF Users Group in June 2009, and the
Cleveland .Net Study Group in August 2009, and is the INETA mentor for
Ohio. When not coding, Sam loves spending time with his family and
friends or volunteering at his local church. He can be reached by email
at sam@nasr.info.

-----

'''Presentation: Security Code Review: A Radical Departure from
Everything You Know and Love (to hate) About Code Review '''

***Abstract:*** Code review is probably the single-most effective
technique for identifying security flaws. When used together with
automated tools and manual penetration testing, code review can
significantly increase the cost effectiveness of an application security
verification effort. In this talk, experts will cover commonly asked
questions such as:

How can you change the way you apply source code review using modern and
freely available tools in order to provide high-quality review? What,
specifically, can you do to avoid the critical flaws we commonly find?
How do you scale the effort up to an enterprise worth of applications?
How do you scale the effort down to the space in which a 2 week sprint
lives? And finally, how do you apply it to continuous deployment?

***Speaker Bios:*** John Steven - John’s expertise runs the gamut of
software security from threat modeling and architectural risk analysis,
through static analysis (with an emphasis on automation), to security
testing. He has been leading source code analysis for over 15 years,
reviewing everything from kernels, to hypervisors and virtual machines,
to massive 20+MLoC web sites and mobile apps. He’s researched static
analysis tools and aspect compilers extensively and helped design and
build the HP/Fortify SCA tool. As a software developer he’s led design
and development of security services and business-critical production
applications for large organizations in a range of verticals. As a
consultant, John has provided strategic direction to many multi-national
corporations, and his keen interest in automation keeps Cigital
technology at the cutting edge. He has served as co-editor of the
Building Security In department of IEEE Security & Privacy magazine, and
as the leader of the Northern Virginia OWASP chapter. He speaks
regularly at conferences and trade shows.

Kevin Glavin - Kevin Glavin is a Senior Consultant who has over 10 years
of experience in a variety of roles including Lead Developer, Software
Assurance Specialist, and Software Security Analyst. Kevin has worked
with a number of Fortune 250 and multi-national companies, as well as
government agencies. As a consultant at Cigital, he has led secure code
review, penetration testing (hardware, software, and network), and
architectural risk analysis of systems built from a few thousand lines
of code to systems containing tens of millions of lines of code. He
specializes in integrating security testing techniques into existing
tools and SDLC methodologies, and leveraging DevOps practices for
consistency and agility.

-----

**Presentation: Cracking and Fixing REST Services**

***Abstract:*** REST, or Representational State Transfer, just refers to
the protocol with which the whole Web works. No big. We are used to
using REST with a browser, but there is more to it - we can write
programs with REST. The problem is that writing properties and functions
using the web's transfer protocol open them up to all of the security
weaknesses of the web, and we know there are a few of those. Finding
those bugs is just half of the battle - fixing them is a whole other
story. You'll need the details, and you'll get them here.

***Speaker Bio:*** Bill Sempf - In 1992, Bill Sempf was working as a
systems administrator for The Ohio State University, and formalized his
career-long association with internetworking. While working for one of
the first ISPs in Columbus in 1995, he built the second major web-based
shopping center, Americash Mall, using Cold Fusion and Oracle. Bill’s
focus started to turn to security around the turn of the century.
Internet driven viruses were becoming the norm by this time, and
applications were susceptible to attack like never before. In 2003, Bill
wrote the security and deployment chapters of the often-referenced
Professional ASP.NET Web Services for Wrox, and began his career in pen
testing and threat modeling with a web services analysis for the State
of Ohio.

Currently, Bill is working as a security-minded software architect
specializing in the Microsoft space. He has recently designed a global
architecture for a telecommunications web portal, modeled threats for a
global travel provider, and provided identity policy and governance for
the State of Ohio. Additionally, he is actively publishing, with the
latest being Windows 8 Application Development with HTML5 for Dummies.

-----

**Presentation: Security Omnipresence: Infiltrating Every Level of a
Mature Development Lifecycle**

***Abstract:*** It’s easy for a security professional to feel like he’s
alone, especially when there are already mature processes in place
designed to function without him. And if he does finally break into the
development lifecycle, he certainly can’t be everywhere at once. Or can
he? We’ll show you how we infiltrated the development lifecycle, spread
the message of security, and recruited shadowy agents of change to
achieve security omnipresence.

This presentation tells the story of how we were able to integrate
concepts from the MS security development lifecycle into the
long-established processes in our company. We'll talk about how the
initiative started independently in 2 departments for different reasons,
yet we combined all our efforts to create a very effective and
customized security program.

From our participation in local infosec groups and meetings, we realized
that security professionals are having trouble truly integrating
security into their company's processes and culture. This talk actually
was born from a request by our local OWASP chapter for us to tell the
story of how we got as far as having QA doing security testing on top of
Development following SDL practices.

Moreover, people seem to get hung up on the idea that security tools and
software will solve their problems, when that's not the case. Security
is all about the mindset, and that's one of the main points we want to
convey.

***Speaker Bios:*** Marion Nepomuceno - is a security engineer at Hyland
Software in charge of developing training materials, and working closely
with the nearly 200-person development staff on improving their secure
coding skills and the security of the product. Marion has given several
presentations and classes to audiences of varying sizes on the topic of
security concepts and the SDL. He headed up the project to re-fit
Microsoft's SDL processes to work within Hyland which houses several
different waterfall-based and agile processes. This project has enjoyed
significant success that has drawn the attention of the local security
community.

Kris French - is a security tester at Hyland Software, and
single-handedly created the security program for the QA department. Kris
is in charge of creating training materials, creating and leading
classes for his security-focused internal education track, managing the
QA security champions group, and collaborating with development to aid
in the creation of an overall security direction for the company. Kris
is also an active member in his local security community and frequent
contributor to the proceedings of the OWASP Cleveland chapter. How to
foster company-wide adoption

-----

**Presentation: Information Disclosure: Looking Beyond Vulnerabilities
to Freebies**

***Abstract:*** While the application security community is focused on
tools that test for various vulnerabilities, your servers, developers
and organization could be giving out valuable details that just makes an
attacker's job so much easier - free information. No vulnerability
scanner will find the Stack Overflow post with admin credentials, or the
'hidden' file with a test account, or that obscure error message that
makes your database barf. Bill will take you through hands on testing
that you can try today: finding out about what your applications,
servers, networks, and people are telling attackers about your innermost
secrets.

***Speaker Bio:*** Bill Sempf - In 1992, Bill Sempf was working as a
systems administrator for The Ohio State University, and formalized his
career-long association with internetworking. While working for one of
the first ISPs in Columbus in 1995, he built the second major web-based
shopping center, Americash Mall, using Cold Fusion and Oracle. Bill’s
focus started to turn to security around the turn of the century.
Internet driven viruses were becoming the norm by this time, and
applications were susceptible to attack like never before. In 2003, Bill
wrote the security and deployment chapters of the often-referenced
Professional ASP.NET Web Services for Wrox, and began his career in pen
testing and threat modeling with a web services analysis for the State
of Ohio.

Currently, Bill is working as a security-minded software architect
specializing in the Microsoft space. He has recently designed a global
architecture for a telecommunications web portal, modeled threats for a
global travel provider, and provided identity policy and governance for
the State of Ohio. Additionally, he is actively publishing, with the
latest being Windows 8 Application Development with HTML5 for Dummies.

-----

**Presentation: "Lessons Learned from HealthCare.gov - Integrating
Security into Complex Software Deployments"**

Video of January's Presentation, *Lessons Learned from HealthCare.gov*,
is available
**[HERE](http://engage.securestate.com/owasp-cleveland-registration)**

***Abstract:*** The recent problems with Healthcare.gov highlight the
fact that many organizations still struggle to secure applications they
develop. During this talk, SecureState will take an apolitical approach
to looking at what lessons can be learned from the Healthcare.gov
rollout and how these lessons can be applied to software you are
developing. During this talk, SecureState will use firsthand experience
gained from helping a state based health exchange become operational and
compliant to the various federal security standards, as well as public
information on the security challenges the national exchange faces.

***Speaker Bio:*** Chris Clymer - As the Manager of SecureState’s
Advisory Services practice, Chris Clymer works on the design and
management of Security Programs as clients’ Security Program Manager
(SPM). Chris’s core strengths of developing complex strategies and
establishing specific priorities are keys to his ability to provide
expert advisory leadership to clients looking to him for guidance. His
expertise at defining objectives and conducting in-depth research also
serves him well in this capacity. Chris questions frequently and
thoroughly, initiates innovation, and improvises solutions – all
valuable skills for leading our Advisory Services practice. Chris holds
several industry certifications, including Certified Information Systems
Security Professional (CISSP), Certified Information Systems Auditor
(CISA), GIAC Certified Penetration Tester (GPEN), GIAC Certified Web
Application Penetration Tester (GWAPT), and provisional ISO 27001
Auditor.

-----

**Presentation: "Threat Modeling - The First Step in Secure Application
Development"**

Video of April's Presentation, *Threat Modeling - The First Step in
Secure Application Development*, is available
**[HERE](http://marketing.securestate.com/owasp-cleveland---meeting-registration)**

***Abstract:*** Application security issues continue to be a growing
concern for businesses large and small. In fact, many people would be
surprised to find that some of the most popular mobile apps downloaded
are vulnerable to issues found in the OWASP Mobile Top 10 list of common
vulnerabilities.

To address these issues security needs to be integrated into the
software development life cycle (SDLC) used by the developers. When
developing an application in a secure manner threat modeling is an
important but often forgotten first step.

This talk will start out an overview of where to integrate security into
the SDLC process. The remainder of the talk will focus on the threat
modeling portion of the SecSDLC. During this stage the OWASP Mobile
Threat Model will be introduced. To provide real world examples
vulnerabilities found in many of the top 25 downloaded apps found in the
Apple App Store and Google Play will be covered.

***Speaker Bios:*** Matt Neely is the Director of Research, Innovation
and Strategic Initiatives at SecureState, a security management
consulting firm. At SecureState Matt leads the Research and Innovation
team which focuses on imagining, researching and developing
methodologies and tools that will solve industry related issues. In
addition to Matt’s technical background, his strong understanding of
business processes and organizational structure allow him to meet the
security needs of the business world. Matt is a regular speaker at
various business and security user groups and conferences including
Black Hat, Defcon, THOTCON and ShmooCon. Matt recently published the
book Radio Reconnaissance in Penetration Testing.

Tom Eston is the manager of the Profiling and Penetration Team at
SecureState. Tom leads a team of highly skilled penetration testers that
provide attack and penetration testing services for SecureState's
clients. Tom focuses much of his research on new technologies such as
social media and mobile applications. He is the founder of
SocialMediaSecurity.com which is an open source community dedicated to
exposing the insecurities of social media. Tom is a security blogger,
SANS Mentor, co-host of the Social Media Security podcast, and is a
frequent speaker at security user groups and worldwide conferences
including Black Hat, DEFCON, DerbyCon, Notacon, SANS, OWASP AppSec, and
ShmooCon.

-----

**Presentation: Reverse Engineering .NET and Java**

***Abstract:*** Learn the various techniques bad guys can use to extract
information from your .NET or Java applications or at least how you can
recover the source code that your predecessor deleted before he quit.
Enjoy a demo filled session on how easy it is to extract information
from virtually any .NET or Java application.

***Speaker Bio:*** Kuemerle is a developer and speaker in the Cleveland,
OH area specializing in .NET development, security, data base and
application lifecycle topics. He is currently a Lead Developer at
BookingBuilder Technologies and is active in the technical community as
well as a speaker at local, regional and national events.

-----

**Presentation:**“Ninja Developers: Application Security Testing and
Your SDLC.”'''

***Abstract:*** The security of enterprise software is one of the key
risks organizations can start to control today. As new applications are
developed and legacy software is updated, incorporating a measure of
security testing can be one of the most critical ways to positively
impact an organizations security posture. To properly validate the
security of enterprise applications a 3rd party penetration test or
assessment may be enlisted - but the cost of testing each application
quickly makes this impractical. This situation presents a challenging
problem.

Kevin Johnson will explain how your development staff can incorporate
techniques distilled from years of experience into your organization's
development and release methodology. Whether you're using Agile, RUP or
Google programming, these tips and tricks will enable your developers to
produce higher quality, more secure code right from the start. Kevin
will reveal some of the secrets of the masters learned from experience
and industry leadership over the past decade - and show you how you can
insert security into your software development lifecycle with minimal
disruption and maximum effectiveness.

***Speaker Bio:*** Kevin Johnson is a security consultant and founder of
Secure Ideas. Kevin came to security from a development and system
administration background. He has many years of experience performing
security services for fortune 100 companies, and in his spare time he
contributes to a large number of open source security projects. Kevin's
involvement in open-source projects is spread across a number of
projects and efforts. Kevin is a certified instructor for SANS and the
author of Security 542: Web Application Penetration Testing and Ethical
Hacking.

-----

#### Chapter Meetings

To join the chapter mailing list, please visit our [mailing
list](http://lists.owasp.org/mailman/listinfo/owasp-cleveland) homepage.
The list is used to discuss the meetings and to arrange meeting
locations. Please check the mailing list before coming to a meeting to
confirm the location and time and to catch any last minute notes.

Our chapter is sponsored by [SecureState](http://www.securestate.com/).

#### Cleveland OWASP Chapter Leaders

The chapter leader is [Ken Stasiak](mailto:kstasiak@securestate.com)
__NOTOC__ <headertabs/>

[Category:OWASP Chapter](Category:OWASP_Chapter "wikilink")
[Category:Ohio](Category:Ohio "wikilink")