## The presentation

![Owasp_logo_normal.jpg](Owasp_logo_normal.jpg
"Owasp_logo_normal.jpg")This talk provides a brief overview of cloud
computing, and reveals the security risks of moving into the clouds. The
concept behind cloud computing is simple: use a hosting provider's IT
resources to expand or shrink to meet your needs, and only for pay what
you need when you need it. This architecture appeals to many IT managers
as it reduces the initial startup costs, maintenance costs, and overhead
required to run systems. Got slashdotted? Not a problem. Your cloud
presence will seamlessly expand to push your business to the next level.
However, as with all new technology, there are inherent risks. This talk
will discuss the security risks related to cloud application code,
architecture, runtime environment, and development environment, and will
include demo applications to illustrate the security risks.

## The speakers

Jon Rose is a security consultant for Trustwave - SpiderLabs. Jon has
close to a decade of experience performing network and application
security assessments, including network penetration testing, blackbox
application testing, and code reviews across a wide range of programming
languages and technologies. Jon has also led IT policy, standards, and
guideline projects, as well as providing IT security remediation support
for commercial and government clients. His security expertise also
includes building enterprise security programs, providing guidance in an
enterprise security architect role, and building security into
organizations existing software development lifecycle. Jon has created
and delivered security-training courses covering topics such as security
awareness, defensive programming (Java and .Net), secure architecture
and design, penetration testing, and code analysis.
Tom Leavey is a security consultant for Trustwave - SpiderLabs. Tom
Leavey is a Security Consultant with Trustwave. He has many years of
industry experience in conducting application security reviews, code
reviews, and network penetration tests. Tom is also a security hobbyist
and enjoys researching new security frontiers, being particularly
interested in physical security and physical penetration testing. Tom
believes in public service and has lobbied congress for a personal
bailout package consisting mainly of scotch and cigars.

[Category:OWASP_AppSec_DC_09](Category:OWASP_AppSec_DC_09 "wikilink")
[Category:OWASP_Conference_Presentations](Category:OWASP_Conference_Presentations "wikilink")