## R5 - User Privacy and Secondary Usage of Data

Privacy is local but the data flows within a Cloud are global. And yet
the individuals and regulations expect and demand that their local
expectations can be met in shared/global Cloud \[1\].

What is privacy data?

Data that uniquely identifies an individual and his/her behavior and
activities. Different countries and regions have different privacy
regulations.

Google and other social sites collect privacy data and leverage it.

How it can be lost?

User is unaware of how

Privacy policy of Google

Data no longer resides within the physical premises of the enterprise
creating ineffective network boundary controls. This shift demonstrates
the need for data centric security models and extends trust boundaries
with the Cloud Service Providers (CSP). In addition, privacy and
regulatory compliance requirements that drive stronger internal security
controls such as Sarbanes-Oxley (SOX), Payment Card Industry (PCI), and
Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act (HIPAA) get extended
to the CSP. With the exponential growth in collaboration spaces and use
of social media, privacy concerns are the main focus in security
discussions; however, business leaders want to reap the benefits of
cloud computing without changing their risk appetite. Business leaders
must balance the lower cost-of-ownership, improved functionality, and
time-to-market advantages against privacy and data protection
requirements. This presentation will provide information and
methodologies on how an enterprise can manage security and privacy risks
while adopting cloud computing. One of the biggest challenges in cloud
computing is to minimize the enterprise risk. First step is to assess
and scope the privacy requirements of the data managed in the cloud
infrastructure. Privacy assessments for CSPs need to take into
consideration the existing security controls including physical storage
and distribution of data across the cloud. While working on different
security initiatives, authors have designed an assessment methodology
using a "Privacy Security Matrix". This matrix maps PII data elements to
the required regional security controls. It is important to translate
security and privacy requirements and agreements with CSPs into SLAs and
uphold the providers to deliver on them. Also, enterprises may need to
update privacy policies and communicating to the user community (which
company lawyers and HR does not like). Finally, for ongoing risk
management and compliance, an effective monitoring and auditability
program that extends to the cloud provider is essential. This program
should have specific and measurable criteria in order to ensure the
effectiveness of the privacy and security program. In summary, authors’
first- hand experience in evaluating CSPs for security and privacy
risks, and the methodologies that they have developed will help
potential and existing users of cloud computing to learn how to
effectively manage security and privacy risks while adopting cloud.

Reference

\[1\] .
<http://www.privacyconference2007.gc.ca/workbooks/pres_infosession1_01_abrams_e.pdf>

### Risks

# Incidents:

\=

Google China incident.

# Countermeasures

\=

__NOTOC__ <headertabs/>

[Category:OWASP Cloud ‐ 10
Project](Category:OWASP_Cloud_‐_10_Project "wikilink")