## R3: Regulatory Compliance

Customers are ultimately responsible for the security and compliance
with regulatory laws (e.g., SOX, HIPAA etc) of their own applications
that are hosted in cloud. Data stewards and application owners must plan
to put timely audits in place to ensure proper controls in the
applications and infrastructure that is hosted at a cloud provider.
Companies that are planning to adopt cloud (SaaS, Iaas, Paas etc) must
ensure that their cloud provider understand the respective roles and
responsbilities (RACI etc) in helping out customers in maintaining
required compliance with the appropriate regulatory laws and standards
(government and commercial). IT managers are likely to push back on
cloud adoption due to the fear of losing control of their resources to
outside cloud providers who can change the underlying technology or
implementation or both without customer’s consent which may have
implications on regulatory compliance due to lack of transparency
(Sullivan, 2009; Chow et al., 2009). IT organizations should analyze
whether or not a move to the cloud makes sense with a risk management
framework that incorporates data protection and compliance requirements
and by making sure that the data protection, availability and key
management expectations are well defined into the service level
agreements (Getgen, 2009).

References:

Anthes, G.. (2009, January). SaaS Realities. Computerworld, 43(1),
21-22. Retrieved August 9, 2009, from ABI/INFORM Global. (Document ID:
1626575741).

Business: Pain in the aaS; Computer security. (2008, April). The
Economist, 387(8577), 86. Retrieved August 9, 2009, from ABI/INFORM
Global. (Document ID: 1469385981).

Gartner: Seven Cloud-Computing Security Risks.
<http://www.cio.com/article/423713/Gartner_Seven_Cloud_Computing_Security_Risks?page=1&taxonomyId=1419>

Google: Cloud computing more secure than traditional IT.
<http://www.computerweekly.com/Articles/2009/07/21/236982/cloud-computing-more-secure-than-traditional-it-says.htm>

Top five cloud computing security issues.
<http://www.computerweekly.com/Articles/2009/04/24/235782/top-five-cloud-computing-security-issues.htm>

Cloud Security Alliance.
<http://www.cloudsecurityalliance.org/csaguide.pdf>

O'Sullivan, D. (2009). The internet cloud with a silver lining. The
British Journal of Administrative Management.

Chow, R., Golle, P., Jakobsson, M., Shi, E., Staddon, J., Masuoka, R., &
Molina, J. (2009). Controlling data in the cloud: Outsourcing
computation without outsourcing control. Paper presented at the CCSW
'09: Proceedings of the 2009 ACM Workshop on Cloud Computing Security,
Chicago, Illinois, USA

Getgen, K. (2009, October). 2009 Encryption and key management industry
benchmark report. Trust Catalyst white paper on Risk Management for data
protection.

__NOTOC__ <headertabs/>

[Category:OWASP Cloud ‐ 10
Project](Category:OWASP_Cloud_‐_10_Project "wikilink")