According to wikipedia, Platform as a service' (PaaS) is the delivery of
a computing platform and solution stack as a service. It facilitates
deployment of applications without the cost and complexity of buying and
managing the underlying hardware and software layers providing all of
the facilities required to support the complete life cycle of building
and delivering web applications and services entirely available from the
Internet—with no software downloads or installation for developers, IT
managers or end-users. PaaS offerings include workflow facilities for
application design, application development, testing, deployment and
hosting as well as application services such as team collaboration, web
service integration and marshalling, database integration, security,
scalability, storage, persistence, state management, application
versioning, application instrumentation and developer community
facilitation. These services are provisioned as an integrated solution
over the web.
The top 5 security concerns are:
1: Business Continuity Planning and Disastor Recovery with PAAS vendor.
Example: Windows Azure platform, Microsoft's cloud computing platform,
suffered an outage one weekend in March, 2009. Had your enterprise been
using the service, how would the outage have affected the organization's
ability to conduct business? Alternatively, it would have been
Microsoft's responsibility to fix it, not your IT team's (but be
careful; your executive team may not see the distinction).
2: Lack of Secure Software Development Process with PAAS vendor. One
PAAS offering is the SDLC. The Secure SDLC (SSDLC) is still new and not
widely used. The lack of SSDLC could mean insecure code.

3: Vendor Lock In: Platform as a Service (PaaS) vendors tend to dictate
the database, storage and application framework used, so what about
those legacy applications? Enterprises will still require the skills and
infrastructure to be able to run them.

4: Lack of adequate provisions in SLA. the Cloud Computing Bill of
Rights provides a useful checklist of protection with which to benchmark
a supplier's offering. The upcoming National Institute of Standards and
Technology (NIST) Cloud Computing Security publication will do a lot to
standardize federal-compliant cloud infrastructures and need to be
followed.

5: How to meet compliance demands and control risks when work with a
PAAS Vendor
Reference
<http://searchsecurity.techtarget.com/expert/KnowledgebaseAnswer/0,289625,sid14_gci1361723,00.html>
<http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Platform_as_a_service>
<http://www.cloudsecurityalliance.org/>

<http://social.msdn.microsoft.com/Forums/en-US/windowsazure/thread/6c1cd8a2-8d9d-43e9-a1d8-928e0ca4de78>



[Category:OWASP Cloud ‐ 10
Project](Category:OWASP_Cloud_‐_10_Project "wikilink")