## R6: Service and Data Integration

Gartner published extensive research on cloud services intermediaries
called cloud services brokerages, which would enhance and enrich cloud
services in terms of performance etc and help improve cloud adoption.

Cloud consumers that are planning to adopt cloud and cloud services
brokerages must make sure that their proprietary data is adequately
protected as it traverses through the internet between the end user and
the cloud data center(s). Cloud computing models increase the risks
associated with interception of data in transit, eventhough these risks
are not unique to cloud. Cloud providers must ensure that they use SSL
and/or tighter encryption protocols to secure data in transit.
Increasingly complex integration and the dynamics in cloud computing
present significant challenges to timely diagnosis and resolution of
incidents such as malware detection and immediate intrusion response to
mitigate the impact (Gupta, 2009; Christodorescu, Sailer, Schales,
Sgandurra & Zamboni, 2009).

References:

Babcock, C. (2009, September). Hybrid Clouds. InformationWeek,(1240),
15-19. Retrieved December 20, 2009, from ABI/INFORM Global. (Document
ID: 1865633581).

Byrne, T. (2009, April). Clouding Over. EContent, 32(3), 37. Retrieved
December 20, 2009, from ABI/INFORM Global. (Document ID: 1675328451). de
Assuncao, M. D., di Costanzo, A., & Buyya, R. (2009). Evaluating the
cost-benefit of using cloud computing to extend the capacity of
clusters. Paper presented at the HPDC '09: Proceedings of the 18th ACM
International Symposium on High Performance Distributed Computing,
Garching, Germany. 141-150.

Hoover, J. (2009, April). GE Puts The Cloud Model To The Test.
InformationWeek,(1226), 32-33. Retrieved December 20, 2009, from
ABI/INFORM Global. (Document ID: 1682898981).

Gupta, R., Prasad, K. H., Luan, L., Rosu, D., & Ward, C. (2009).
Multi-dimensional knowledge integration for efficient incident
management in a services cloud. Paper presented at the SCC '09:
Proceedings of the 2009 IEEE International Conference on Services
Computing, 57-64

Christodorescu, M., Sailer, R., Schales, D. L., Sgandurra, D., &
Zamboni, D. (2009). Cloud security is not (just) virtualization
security: A short paper. Paper presented at the CCSW '09: Proceedings of
the 2009 ACM Workshop on Cloud Computing Security, Chicago, Illinois,
USA. 97-102

__NOTOC__ <headertabs/>

[Category:OWASP Cloud ‐ 10
Project](Category:OWASP_Cloud_‐_10_Project "wikilink")