Welcome to the home site of the Columbus OWASP Chapter. We welcome all
technology professionals to our monthly discussions of application
security.

## Upcoming Meetings

***Upcoming meetings are listed at our new [Meetup.com
site](http://www.meetup.com/Columbus-OWASP/).***

## Chapter information

Columbus OWASP meets monthly on the fourth Thursday of the month, with
two different meeting formats. Some months are Sessions, where we have
two speakers, and an open discussion of news of the day. Others are Code
Jams, where we work on projects, bug bounty programs, or other geeky
stuff. All of it is described on
[Meetup.com](http://www.meetup.com/Columbus-OWASP/). There will be
opportunities for Columbus OWASP members to meet other local security
groups through event cross-participation and cooperation.

### OWASP Membership

There have been a lot of questions about membership. Membership supports
the many projects that OWASP in involved in, including ESAPI. [Learn
more about membership
here](http://www.owasp.org/index.php/Membership#Categories_of_Membership_.26_Supporters).
Remember to tell them you are interested in membership in the Columbus
chapter.

### Stay in touch with Columbus OWASP

  - The first stop to connecting with the community is our [Meetup
    message
    board](https://www.meetup.com/Columbus-OWASP/messages/boards/), feel
    free to contribute and interact with the forum - it's not just for
    listening\!

<!-- end list -->

  - We're a group on
    [LinkedIn](http://www.linkedin.com/groups?home=&gid=2796025) as
    well, please join us.

### Become a voting member

We encourage organization and individual supporters of our [ethics &
principals](http://www.owasp.org/index.php/About_The_Open_Web_Application_Security_Project)
to become a voting
**[MEMBER](http://www.owasp.org/index.php/Membership#Categories_of_Membership_.26_Supporters)**.
Please review the [Chapter Rules](Chapter_Rules "wikilink") and the
[OWASP
overview](http://www.owasp.org/images/9/9f/2009-OWASP_KeyNote-V2.pdf),
and [contact the chapter leaders](mailto:columbusowasp\(at\)gmail.com)
for more information.

*The professional association of OWASP Foundation Inc., is always free
and open to anyone interested in learning more about application
security.*

### We want your participation\!

To submit educational topics for upcoming meetings, [submit your ideas
and slide deck](mailto:columbusowasp\(at\)gmail.com) (if available)
using the [OWASP
Template](http://www.owasp.org/images/5/54/Presentation_template.ppt)
and include a speaker BIO. It doesn't have to be formal, we're happy to
provide some assistance in organizing your thoughts. You only need an
interest and knowledge of your independent research or related software
security topic.

### Sponsorship, too\!

There are myriad opportunities to sponsor the chapter, including meeting
space, food, marketing, and monetary donations. We're always looking for
assistance. Inquiries regarding chapter or per-meeting sponsorship
opportunities can be directed to [the chapter
leaders](mailto:columbusowasp\(at\)gmail.com). As a [501(3)c non-profit
professional association](http://www.owasp.org/index.php/About_OWASP)
your support and sponsorship of a meeting venue and/or refreshments is
tax-deductible and all financial contributions can be [made online right
now](https://www.owasp.org/index.php/Single_Meeting_Supporter).

## Previous Meetings

The previous meetings, including materials and photos, can be accessed
on our [Meetup page](https://www.meetup.com/Columbus-OWASP/)

## Columbus OWASP Chapter Leaders

Please feel free to contact the chapter leaders at any time.

  - [Aaron Ansari](mailto:aaronansari@gmail.com)
  - [Connie Matthews](mailto:Connie.Matthews\(at\)securicon.com)
  - [Bill Sempf](mailto:bill\(at\)pointweb.net)

[Category:OWASP_Chapter](Category:OWASP_Chapter "wikilink")
[Category:Ohio](Category:Ohio "wikilink")