Management and oversight of OWASP Global AppSec and Regional Events
should stay under the purview of the Global Conferences Committee. The
Conferences Committee is comprised of members who have the experience,
knowledge and experience to ensure that larger OWASP events are run in a
manner consistent with the values of the foundation as well as in an
open and fiscally responsible manor. Over the past 2 years under the
Conferences Committee’s leadership, we’ve seen OWASP grow from having
one, perhaps two global events each year to having a Global AppSec
Conference in North America, South America, Europe and Asia every year
in addition to increasing the number of regional and local events we
participate in worldwide. Under GCC stewardship we have also seen a
significant increase in profitability for events that provide the engine
to drive OWASP’s activities worldwide.

OWASP conferences and events are the flagship of our outreach activities
and of equal importance are vital to the very existence of OWASP. It is
the revenues that OWASP makes from conferences that allow the foundation
to fund all aspects of it’s operations, projects, chapters as well as
some of our most successful outreach activities such as the summit. Last
year conference income accounted for **77% of OWASP's annual income**
and brought in a total profit of $240,399.71 (up 151% from 2009). The
Conferences Committee has demonstrated its ability to conduct a
significant outreach effort while continuing to ensure that the
foundation has the funding it needs to continue executing this mission.
Placing this responsibility in the hands of the Chapters Committee,
whose mission is to provide support to local chapters, and removing it
from the Conferences Committee, who have the specific expertise in
planning and executing events would be in my opinion irresponsible.

I will admit that the majority of the Global Conferences Committee
resources and time are focused on the larger events. When it comes to
the smaller events we mostly provide foundation funds, guidance when
asked and leave the vast majority of the planning to the local team,
rarely getting involved. Comparatively, smaller events (under 100
attendees) do not have as significant impact to the foundation as a
whole and in general do not generate significant income (last year they
represented 0.88% or $2065.07 of total event income). While these
smaller events are critical to outreach efforts and need to be
coordinated with the rest of the OWASP event schedule I believe that the
Chapters Committee may be capable of managing these size events (as they
typically only involve a single chapter); however, they could also
continue to be managed by the Conferences Committee.

There are some areas where the Conferences Committee needs to improve. I
agree with the sentiment that we do not clearly define the differences
between the "type" of event or level support between Global AppSec,
Regional and Local events. We also need to continue our work of
spreading out the OWASP Global Event Calendar as we are still very heavy
in the second part of the year. I will also admit that not every
decision the Global Conferences Committee has made has been popular
however sometimes unpopular or difficult decisions need to be made for
the greater good. I will say that all of the decisions made by the
conferences committee have been conducted in the most open and
democratic way possible. We conduct almost all of our business on the
maligning list for all to see and contribute and we vote on almost every
decision so that those who have been validated by their peers to serve
on the committee can have their say in the process. The conferences
committee was even the first to develop a self governance document which
was adopted in part or in whole by several of the other committees,
including chapters. Considering the massive responsibility placed on the
conferences committee in both leading the outreach effort and in ensure
the foundation has sufficient operating income to continue it’s
existence I’d say the Global Conferences Committee is doing a great job
and don’t see the reason or rationale for making any move that would
obstruct them from continuing to do great work on behalf of OWASP.