## J. Howard Beales, III

  - **Director of the Federal Trade Commission's Bureau of Consumer
    Protection**
  - **Before the Information Technology Association of America's
    Internet Policy Committee, Friday, December 12, 2003**

"With new vulnerabilities announced almost weekly, many businesses may
feel overwhelmed trying to keep current. But there is help in the form
of consensus lists of vulnerabilities and defenses. The Open Web
Application Security Project has produced a similar list of the 10 most
critical Web application and databases security vulnerabilities and the
most effective ways to address them. Application vulnerabilities are
often neglected, but they are as important to deal with as network
issues. If every company eliminated these common vulnerabilities, their
work wouldn't be done, but they, and the Internet, would be
significantly safer."

## Eugene H. Spafford

  - **Professor of Computer Sciences, Purdue University**
  - **Executive Director of the Purdue University Center for Education
    and Research in Information Assurance and Security (CERIAS)**

"Misconfiguration, inattention, and flawed software can spell disaster
on the Internet. One of the primary areas of vulnerability is through
WWW connections. By design, WWW services are intended to be open and
accepting, and usually act as an interface to valuable resources. As
such, it is critical that these services be secured. But with hundreds
of potential vulnerabilities it can be overly daunting to decide where
to start applying defensive measures. The OWASP Top 10 provides a
consensus view of the most significant and likely vulnerabilities in
custom WWW applications. Organizations should use it to focus their
efforts, giving them confidence they are addressing those areas that
will have the most impact on securing their applications."

## Dr. Peter G. Neumann

  - **Principal Scientist, SRI International Computer Science Lab**
  - **Moderator of the ACM Risks Forum, Author of "Computer-Related
    Risks"**

"This ‘Ten-Most-Wanting’ List acutely scratches at the tip of an
enormous iceberg. The underlying reality is shameful: most system and
Web application software is written oblivious to security principles,
software engineering, operational implications, and indeed common
sense."

## Steven M. Christey

  - **Principal Information Security Engineer and CVE Editor, Mitre**

"This list is an important development for consumers and vendors alike.
It will educate vendors to avoid the same mistakes that have been
repeated countless times in other web applications. But it also gives
consumers a way of asking vendors to follow a minimum set of
expectations for web application security and, just as importantly, to
identify which vendors are not living up to those expectations"

## Jeffrey R. Williams

  - **Aspect Security CEO**
  - **OWASP Top Ten Project Leader**

"The OWASP Top Ten shines a spotlight directly on one of the most
serious and often overlooked risks facing government and commercial
organizations. The root cause of these risks is not flawed software, but
software development processes that pay little or no attention to
security. The most effective first step towards creating a
security-aware culture in your organization is immediately adopting the
Top Ten as a minimum standard for web application security."

## Mark Curphey

  - **Founder of OWASP**
  - **Director of Application Security Consulting, Foundstone Strategic
    Security.**

"There is no silver bullet for web security despite what some technology
companies would have you believe. Solving this complex and challenging
problem is about having great people, great knowledge, great education,
great business process and using great technology. The OWASP Top Ten
creates a palatable well ordered and well thought out list from where
you can start to understand your security posture (or that of your
service providers) and plan the use of your valuable resources
accordingly."

## Dr. Charles P. Pfleeger

  - **CISSP**
  - **Master Security Architect, Cable & Wireless**
  - **Author of "Security in Computing"**

"From web pages to back office number crunching, almost all
organizations acquire applications code, many people write it, and
everybody uses it. But flaws continue to be found in applications, even
after nearly fifty years of programming experience. Worse, the same
kinds of flaws appear over and over again. This failure to learn from
not only our mistakes but also those of our parents’ generation creates
far too many vulnerabilities for potential attack. It is no wonder that
attacks against applications are on the rise. In compiling this list of
the ten most critical applications code flaws, the OWASP has performed a
real service to developers and users alike by focusing attention on
common weaknesses and what can be done about them. Now it is up to
software development organizations, programmers, and users to apply the
thoughtful guidance presented here."

## Robert A. Parisi, Jr.

  - **Senior VP and Chief Underwriting Officer, AIG eBusiness Risk
    Solutions**

"The new ROI is security. Companies must be able to provide trusted web
applications and web services to their trading partners; who are
requiring both secure technology and traditional indicia of financial
security, such as insurance. It doesn't stop there though; bad security
places a companies' data and applications at risk and hence its
viability as a commercial entity. Disappointing your customers is one
thing, trying to come back from the loss or corruption of your own
systems is quite another."

## Chris Wysopal

  - **Director of Research & Development, @stake, Inc.**

"Web developers need to know that the degree to which business
applications and customer data are protected from the hostile Internet
is directly determined by how securely they've written their code. The
OWASP Top Ten list is a great way to understand how to code defensively
and avoid the security pitfalls that plague Web applications."

## Lisa Gallagher

  - **Senior VP, Information and Technology Accreditation, URAC**

"The healthcare industry has a critical need to provide secure web
applications that protect users' privacy. The OWASP Top Ten will help
healthcare organizations evaluate the security of web application
products and solutions. Any healthcare organizations using applications
that contain these flaws may have difficulty complying with the HIPAA
regulations."

## Stuart McClure

  - **President and CTO of Foundstone Inc.**

"As more and more companies turn to offshore outsourcing for Web
application development, secure coding enforcement must jump to the top
of the executive priority list. The OWASP Top Ten Project accurately
articulates the top application vulnerabilities, providing C-level
executives a goldmine of information useful in setting security policy
guidelines for Web applications."

## John Heimann

  - '''Director of Security at Oracle Corp. '''

"Application security considerations are often treated as the domain of
specialists, to be applied after coding is done and all other business
requirements are satisfied. At Oracle we have found that the task of
securing applications is most likely to succeed if security is built in
from the start. Developers must have a basic understanding of security
vulnerabilities and how to avoid them, and release managers must
explicitly check that security requirements have been satisfied before
product can ship. The OWASP Top Ten List is an excellent starting point
for companies to build security awareness among their developers, and to
prepare security criteria for application deployment."

## John Viega

  - **Chief Scientist, Secure Software Inc.**
  - **Co-author of "Building Secure Software"**

"Many people have seen top ten lists detailing the "biggest network
security risks". Those lists only point out flaws in third party
software that you may or may not be running on your network. Applying
the information in this list will keep the software you develop off
those other lists\!"

[Category:OWASP_Top_Ten_Project](Category:OWASP_Top_Ten_Project "wikilink")