

## Description

A Computer Virus is a small program designed to cause some kind of
damage in the infected computer, by deleting data, capturing
information, or by altering the normal operation of the machine.

Like the human virus has different levels of gravity, such as the Ebola
virus and the influenza virus, computer viruses range from slightly
disturbing to totally destructive. A virus does not spread without human
action; we need to send someone a file or email to spread it. The virus
can be disguised as an image, audio, or video attachment.

The first computer virus was written in 1982 by a 15 year old student in
the U.S, Rich Skrenta. This computer virus was identified as Elk Cloner,
and affected the Apple II system and did not cause major problems. This
virus showed a small poem on the screen, and was able to make copy of
itself when a floppy was inserted into the computer. When the media was
used in another system, the process spread.

In general there are 3 main types of computer virus:
<b>Boot Virus</b> - Stays in the boot sector of the floppy and in the
Master Boot Record (MBR) of hard disks.

<b>Macro Virus</b> - The most common and most easily created virus, but
less harmful. The macro virus uses the macro language of the application
(such as Visual Basic or VBScript) to infect and duplicate documents and
models. They attack any platform, but generally are made for Microsoft
Office, using the programming environment from Microsoft for
self-implementing the code of macro virus. When an infected document is
opened, the virus runs and infects the models of the application user
and can insert words, numbers or phrases in documents or change command
functions. Once a macro virus infects the machine of a user, it can
incorporate all the documents created in the future with the
application.

<b>Program Virus</b> - Normally be enforced with extensions .com, .exe
and .bat and are activated only with a command from the user. Many of
them are sent by e-mails or Instant Mesages.

<b>Crypto Virus</b> - Hybrid method of infection using asymmetric
cryptography, undetectable by antivirus generic.

## Risk Factors

A Computer Virus could steal or delete information, make the computer
slower, or simply mess with the Operating System. In present days the
most commom are viruses which steal information from Internet Banking,
so the attacker can transfer your money to his account, pay bills or buy
something on the Internet.

## Examples

Some famous and dangers computer virus:
<b>Chernobyl</b> or <b>Spacefiller</b> on April 26 if the computer is
infected the virus is activated and deletes the content of ROM memory
(BIOS).

<b>Melissa</b>comes via an e-mail with an attached Microsoft Word
document. When this message is opened, the virus is activated and
infects the file Normal.dot, then every document created by this text
editor is infected and automatically send a infected e-mail to the first
50 contacts from the catalog of Outlook Express.

<b>Codered</b> attacks the Microsoft IIS 4.0 and 5.0 modifys the main
page with the message "Welcome to <http://> www.worm.com \! Hacked By
Chinese\!" and also programs the infected computer to make a
denial-of-service attack to the White House website
(www.whitehouse.gov).

<b>Worm32</b>Worm encrypted hidden under the RSA algorithm with 1660
bit's length(key to the botnet's)

## Related [Attacks](Attacks "wikilink")

TBD

## Related [Vulnerabilities](Vulnerabilities "wikilink")

TBD

## References

  - [IDGNow](http://idgnow.uol.com.br/seguranca/2007/07/13/idgnoticia.2007-07-13.8750778632/)
  - [Gironsoft](http://www.gironsoft.com.br/virus.htm)
  - [Wikipedia](http://pt.wikipedia.org/wiki/V%C3%ADrus_de_computador)
  - [Infowester](http://www.infowester.com/virus.php)
  - [Microsoft](http://www.microsoft.com/brasil/athome/security/viruses/intro_viruses_what.mspx)
  - [Rsoutlook](http://www.rsoutlook.com/articles/virusspecialist.htm)

[Category:OWASP ASDR Project](Category:OWASP_ASDR_Project "wikilink")
[Category: Threat Agent](Category:_Threat_Agent "wikilink")