![468x60-banner-2010.gif](468x60-banner-2010.gif
"468x60-banner-2010.gif")

[Registration](https://guest.cvent.com/EVENTS/Register/IdentityConfirmation.aspx?e=d52c6f5f-d568-4e16-b8e0-b5e2bf87ab3a)
|
[Hotel](https://resweb.passkey.com/Resweb.do?mode=welcome_gi_new&groupID=2766908)
| [Walter E. Washington Convention
Center](http://www.dcconvention.com/)
\== The presentation ==

![Owasp_logo_normal.jpg](Owasp_logo_normal.jpg
"Owasp_logo_normal.jpg")It seems that everything is a web application
nowadays. Whether the application is cloud-based, mobile, or even fat
client they all seem to be using web protocols to communicate. Adding to
the traditional landscape there is rise in the use of application
programming interfaces, integration hooks, and next generation web
technologies. What this means for someone testing web applications is
that flexibility is the key to success. The Python programming language
is just as flexible as todayâ€™s web application platforms. The language
is appealing to security professionals because it is easy to read and
write, has a wide variety of modules, and has plenty of resources for
help. This additional flexibility affords the tester greater depth than
many of the canned tests that come with common tools they use on a daily
basis. Greater familiarity plus flexible language equals tester win\!

In this presentation we introduce methods with which to create your own
clients, tools, and test cases using the Python programming language. We
want to put testers closer to the conditions in which they are testing
for and arm them with the necessary resources to be successful. We also
discuss interfacing with current tools that people commonly use for web
application testing. This allows for pinpoint identification of specific
vulnerabilities and conditions that are difficult for other tools to
identify.

## The speaker

Speaker bio will be posted shortly.

[Category:AppSec_DC_2010_Presentations](Category:AppSec_DC_2010_Presentations "wikilink")
[Category:OWASP_Conference_Presentations](Category:OWASP_Conference_Presentations "wikilink")