

## Description

A contractor is one who provides goods or service to customers. The
contractor can be a group or individual that has a contracts with
another individual or organization to make a project or something
specific. The contract agreement between the customer and the contractor
can include everything from the responsability for the methods, means,
execution and/or supervision to the supplying of all material, labor,
equipment and/or services necessary. It includes the budget, the general
and special conditions and the plans and specification of the project,
service or supplies.

To do this it is common for the general contractor to subcontract part
of the work to other persons and companies that specialize in these
types of work. These are called subcontractors.

## Risk Factors

TBD

## Examples

Outsourced software developers are hired to write code to a
specification provided by the procuring company. Their deliverable may
include source code, but is sometimes only a compiled version of the
application.

A malicious developer is one of the most difficult threats to deal with,
as it is extremely difficult to identify malicious code. A talented
attacker will make attacks look exactly like an inadvertent error for
plausible deniability. In addition, malicious code may be obfuscated to
prevent easy detection. Some techniques include spreading an attack
throughout a software baseline, using inheritance and class loading
tricks to hide calls, and even formatting tricks.

An outsourced software developer may have no ties with the procuring
company and may see an opportunity to steal information or money via a
software attack.

Examples:

  - Java software developer
  - SQL developer
  - Mainframe developer

## Related [Threat Agents](Threat_Agent "wikilink")

  - [Internal software
    developer](Internal_software_developer "wikilink")

## Related [Attacks](Attacks "wikilink")

  - [Logic/time bomb](Logic/time_bomb "wikilink")
  - [Backdoor attack](Backdoor_attack "wikilink")
  - [Salami attack](Salami_attack "wikilink")

## Related [Vulnerabilities](Vulnerabilities "wikilink")

TBD

## References

  - [Wikipedia](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/General_contractor)

[Category:OWASP ASDR Project](Category:OWASP_ASDR_Project "wikilink")
[Category: Threat Agent](Category:_Threat_Agent "wikilink")