The Copenhagen local chapter organizes quarterly events to promote OWASP
and information security in general.

We (re)started from the OWASP-Denmark local chapter with an [initial
event on
October 25th](https://www.eventbrite.com/myevent?eid=50365223740).

## Events

If interested in giving a talk, please send a message to [Alessandro
Bruni](mailto:Alessandro.Bruni@owasp.org).

### November 25th, 2019 [1](https://www.meetup.com/OWASP-Copenhagen-Chapter/events/266380643/)

#### Let’s Encrypt: An Automated Certificate Authority to Encrypt the Entire Web

**Speaker:** Alex Halderman

**Abstract:** Let’s Encrypt is a free, open, and automated HTTPS
certificate authority (CA) created to advance HTTPS adoption to the
entire Web. Since its launch in late 2015, Let’s Encrypt has grown to
become theworld’s largest HTTPS CA, accounting for more currently valid
certificates than all other browser-trusted CAs combined. By
January2019, it had issued over 538 million certificates for 223 million
domain names. We describe how we built Let’s Encrypt, including the
architecture of the CA software system (Boulder) and the structure of
the organization that operates it (ISRG), and we discuss lessons learned
from the experience. We also describe the design of ACME,the
IETF-standard protocol we created to automate CA–server inter-actions
and certificate issuance, and survey the diverse ecosystem of ACME
clients, including Certbot, a software agent we created to automate
HTTPS deployment. Finally, we measure Let’s Encrypt’s impact on the Web
and the CA ecosystem. We hope that the success of Let’s Encrypt can
provide a model for further enhancements to the Web PKI and for future
Internet security infrastructure.

#### Social Engineering For Physical Intrusions

**Speaker:** Sarka "the pirate queen"

**Objectives:** Objective is to let people understand what are different
social engineering exploits that can be used against them, their
employees or their loved ones. After holistic approach of different
human attack vectors I use for my social engineering attacks for
physical intrusions, I will step to the defensive side to let the
audience understand what controls to put in place to stop a real
malicious attackers.

**Description:** Social Engineering has many different faces from using
open source intelligence (OSINT), phishing, vishing, smishing and all
the other '-ishings',dropping weaponized USB flash drives to eventually
getting right in middle of your target's own office\! As there are many
tools and described ways of all the -ishings, but almost all of them do
not require any interaction with target. And I would like to focus on
physical intrusions. If you are interested how I break into buildings
like a pirate queen, I will explain how to interact with our target
directly and that requires certain knowledge of techniques and skills.

There are many different skills and techniques while approaching a human
target and testing their security. I would like to look at different
human attack vectors.I also look at how to use this knowledge to not
only understand world around us and better our own situational
awareness, but I also explain why this is a fun topic we should teach
our employees that would help with defending our company but also our
loved ones. I like to uncover my offensive thinking while using facial
expressions , body language or psychology research but I also see myself
though someone else's eyes,  who's daily bread is defending networks and
tries to understand human factor while deploying defense in depth at
work.

### August 29th, 2019 [2](https://www.meetup.com/OWASP-Copenhagen-Chapter/events/263639514/)

1.  **Title:** Reporting on BSides Las Vegas and DEF CON **Presenter:**
    Christian Dinesen, NNIT
2.  **Title:** Approaching Bluetooth in 2019 **Presenter:** Martin
    Schroter **Abstract:** Although Bluetooth has been around for the
    better part of 30 years, we keep innovating on the technology and
    new uses are found every year. I want to cover: vulnerabilities in
    Bluetooth 1 up to 5; understanding the cryptography of Bluetooth;
    going over the considerations your company needs to make, when you
    decide to adopt Bluetooth into your infrastructure; know your tools
    Ubertooth sniffing, btlejuice, btlejack, gattacker; jamming
    Bluetooth drones mid air\! Can we really trust this technology and
    what are the challenges?
3.  **Title:** Experiences in OSINT **Presenter:** Bjarne Tersbøl,
    Special Advisor at Konkurrence- og Forbrugerstyrelsen / Danish
    Competition and Consumer Autority

### May 27th, 2019 [3](https://www.meetup.com/OWASP-Copenhagen-Chapter/events/260941433/)

1.  **Title:** Security in LPWAN IoT, a comparison (SigFox, LoRaWaN,
    NB-IoT) **Name:** Florian Coman **Bio:** Security Analyst at TDC,
    MSc in Telecommunication at DTU **Abstract:** I've investigated the
    security features and possible vulnerabilities of some LPWAN IoT
    technologies: the license-free SigFox and LoRaWAN and the cellular
    NB-IoT. I have looked at their End-to-End architecture (from
    end-device to application server) and I will present some of my
    findings during the talk.
2.  **Title:** “Just Hacker Things with Jayson” **Name:** Jayson E.
    Street (http://jaysonestreet.com/) **Abstract:** Instead of a usual
    talk, this will be an open discussion. He will share several stories
    of his travels & exploits (focused around Social Engineering where
    Jayson has mnay years of experience) but mostly will be there to
    answer questions about hacking, blue team, red team and DEF CON
    Groups\! So come with questions and expect a few answers and a lot
    of great hugs\!

### March 28th, 2019 [4](https://www.meetup.com/OWASP-Copenhagen-Chapter/events/258987408/)

1.  **Title:** XSSER: From XSS to RCE 3.0 **Abstract:** This
    presentation demonstrates how an attacker can utilise XSS to execute
    arbitrary code on the web server when an administrative user
    inadvertently triggers a hidden XSS payload. Custom tools and
    payloads integrated with Metasploit's Meterpreter in a highly
    automated approach will be demonstrated live, including
    post-exploitation scenarios and interesting data that can be
    obtained from compromised web applications. This version includes
    more payloads for common web apps and various other improvements
    too\!" **Author:** Hans-Michael Varbaek / TDC Group

### October 25th, 2018 [5](https://www.eventbrite.com/e/owasp-local-meetup-tickets-50365223740#)

1.  **Title:** An ice-cold Boot to break BitLocker **Authors:** Olle
    Segerdahl & Pasi Saarinen / F-Secure

## Sponsors

  - TDC [6](https://tdc.dk/)
  - Dubex [7](https://www.dubex.dk/)
  - IT-University of Copenhagen [8](https://www.itu.dk/)

## Local News

**`Meeting``   ``Location:``   ``IT``   ``University``   ``of``
 ``Copenhagen`**

Everyone is welcome to join us at our chapter meetings.

[Category:OWASP Chapter](Category:OWASP_Chapter "wikilink")
[Category:Europe](Category:Europe "wikilink")