![Cornucopia_-_Ecommerce_Website_VE_2.png](Cornucopia_-_Ecommerce_Website_VE_2.png
"Cornucopia_-_Ecommerce_Website_VE_2.png") **Suit:** [Data Validation
and Encoding](Cornucopia_-_Ecommerce_Website_-_VE "wikilink")

**Card/Value:** 2

### Description:

Brian can gather information about the underlying configurations,
schemas, logic, code, software, services and infrastructure due to the
content of error messages, or poor configuration, or the presence of
default installation files or old, test, backup or copies of resources,
or exposure of source code.

### Technical Note:

Many ecommerce webservers (and other base software) usually provide
error messages with information about the nature of the error by
default. This is most useful to the developer, as it helps to identify
where the error is happening and why. The default configuration also
sometimes provides some admin functions to ease their learning curve.
However, if this default behaviour is not changed in non-development
environments, users (and attackers) can profit from it to acquire
knowledge about the internal workings of the application and supporting
systems/components.

Other sources of information disclosure are often generated by the
developer. These range from messages for internal use, and are not
removed when deployed in production, to simple bad programming
practices. Some examples of these are:

  - Exposing sensitive information (such as session identifiers,
    variables references, login data, etc.) in HTTP headers, URLs,
    custom error messages, comments, logs, related email messages, etc.
  - Including server-side source code in outputs accessible by users.
  - Including sensitive comments in outputs accessible by users.
  - Allowing user access to configuration files.
  - Leaving default install, unused or old files in web accessible
    locations.
  - Revealing the application file structure (path to files in error
    messages or misuse of the robots.txt file).
  - Giving hints about the application workflow and/or security checks
    as user friendly messages.

See Authentication [AT
7](Cornucopia_-_Ecommerce_Website_-_AT_7 "wikilink") relating to
different messages at the user login page to indicate that the username
or the password are wrong.

### References:

<table class="wikitable" style="text-align:center;">

<tr>

<th>

OWASP SCP

</th>

<th>

OWASP ASVS

</th>

<th>

OWASP AppSensor

</th>

<th>

CAPEC

</th>

<th>

SAFECode

</th>

</tr>

<tr>

<td>

[69](OWASP_Secure_Coding_Practices_Checklist#69 "wikilink")

</td>

<td>

[4.5](OWASP_Application_Security_Verification_Standard#4.5 "wikilink")

</td>

<td>

[HT1](AppSensor_DetectionPoints#HT1 "wikilink")

</td>

<td>

[54](https://capec.mitre.org/data/definitions/54.html)

</td>

<td>

[4](SAFECode_Practical_Security_Stories#4 "wikilink")

</td>

</tr>

<tr>

<td>

[107](OWASP_Secure_Coding_Practices_Checklist#107 "wikilink")

</td>

<td>

[8.1](OWASP_Application_Security_Verification_Standard#8.1 "wikilink")

</td>

<td>

[HT2](AppSensor_DetectionPoints#HT2 "wikilink")

</td>

<td>

[224](https://capec.mitre.org/data/definitions/224.html)

</td>

<td>

[23](SAFECode_Practical_Security_Stories#23 "wikilink")

</td>

</tr>

<tr>

<td>

[108](OWASP_Secure_Coding_Practices_Checklist#108 "wikilink")

</td>

<td>

[8.2](OWASP_Application_Security_Verification_Standard#8.2 "wikilink")

</td>

<td>

[HT3](AppSensor_DetectionPoints#HT3 "wikilink")

</td>

<td>

</td>

<td>

</td>

</tr>

<tr>

<td>

[109](OWASP_Secure_Coding_Practices_Checklist#109 "wikilink")

</td>

<td>

</td>

<td>

</td>

<td>

</td>

<td>

</td>

</tr>

<tr>

<td>

[136](OWASP_Secure_Coding_Practices_Checklist#136 "wikilink")

</td>

<td>

</td>

<td>

</td>

<td>

</td>

<td>

</td>

</tr>

<tr>

<td>

[137](OWASP_Secure_Coding_Practices_Checklist#137 "wikilink")

</td>

<td>

</td>

<td>

</td>

<td>

</td>

<td>

</td>

</tr>

<tr>

<td>

[153](OWASP_Secure_Coding_Practices_Checklist#153 "wikilink")

</td>

<td>

</td>

<td>

</td>

<td>

</td>

<td>

</td>

</tr>

<tr>

<td>

[156](OWASP_Secure_Coding_Practices_Checklist#156 "wikilink")

</td>

<td>

</td>

<td>

</td>

<td>

</td>

<td>

</td>

</tr>

<tr>

<td>

[158](OWASP_Secure_Coding_Practices_Checklist#158 "wikilink")

</td>

<td>

</td>

<td>

</td>

<td>

</td>

<td>

</td>

</tr>

<tr>

<td>

[162](OWASP_Secure_Coding_Practices_Checklist#162 "wikilink")

</td>

<td>

</td>

<td>

</td>

<td>

</td>

<td>

</td>

</tr>

</table>

<div style="padding:5px;background:LightGray;color:White;font-weight:bold;">

[« Previous Card](Cornucopia_-_Ecommerce_Website_-_W_Joker_B "wikilink")
<span style="padding-left:10px;padding-right:10px;"> |</span> [Data
Validation and Encoding](Cornucopia_-_Ecommerce_Website_-_VE "wikilink")
<span style="padding-left:10px;padding-right:10px;"> |</span> [Next Card
»](Cornucopia_-_Ecommerce_Website_-_VE_3 "wikilink")

</div>