**The OWASP Code Review Guide:**

The OWASP Code Review guide is the result of initially contributing and
leading the Testing Guide. Initially, it was thought to place Code
review and testing into the same guide; it seemed like a good idea at
the time. But the topic called security code review got too big and
evolved into its own stand-alone guide.

The Code Review guide was started in 2006 by [Eoin
Keary](https://www.owasp.org/index.php/Eoin_Keary). This current version
was started in April 2013 via the OWASP Project Reboot initiative.

The [OWASP Code Review team](OWASP_Code_Review_team "wikilink") consists
of a small, but talented, group of volunteers who should really get out
more often.

It is common knowledge that more secure software can be produced and
developed in a more cost effective way when bugs are detected early on
in the systems development life-cycle. Organizations with a proper code
review functions integrated into the software development life-cycle
(SDLC) produced remarkably better code from a security standpoint.
Simply put "We can't hack ourselves secure". Attackers have more time to
fine vulnerabilities on a system than the time allocated to a defender.
Hacking our way secure amounts to a uneven battlefield; Asymmetric
warfare, a loosing battle.

By necessity, this guide does not cover all languages; it mainly focuses
on .NET and Java, but has a little C/C++ and PHP thrown in also.
However, the techniques advocated in the book can be easily adapted to
almost any code environment. Fortunately, the security flaws in web
applications are remarkably consistent across programming languages.

Purple Monkey Dishwasher