![468x60-banner-2010.gif](468x60-banner-2010.gif
"468x60-banner-2010.gif")

[Registration](https://guest.cvent.com/EVENTS/Register/IdentityConfirmation.aspx?e=d52c6f5f-d568-4e16-b8e0-b5e2bf87ab3a)
|
[Hotel](https://resweb.passkey.com/Resweb.do?mode=welcome_gi_new&groupID=2766908)
| [Walter E. Washington Convention
Center](http://www.dcconvention.com/)
\== The presentation ==

![Jarzombek.jpg](Jarzombek.jpg "Jarzombek.jpg")Whether you manage
internal development activities, work with third party developers or are
developing a COTS application for enterprise, your mandate is clear -
safeguard your code and make it resistant to exploitation. DHS’s
Software Assurance Program sponsors via funding and tasking the Common
Vulnerabilities and Exposures (CVE®), the Common Weakness Enumeration
(CWE)™, Open Vulnerability and Assessment Language (OVAL®), Common
Attack Pattern Enumeration and Classification (CAPEC), and Malware
Attribute Enumeration and Characterization (MAEC™) programs through
MITRE. The Common Weakness Enumeration (CWE™) initiative is a dictionary
of the common software weaknesses in architecture, design, or code for
developers and security practitioners and to serve as a standard
measuring stick for software security tools targeting these weaknesses,
and to provide a common baseline standard for weakness identification,
mitigation, and prevention efforts. Like the OWASP Top Ten, the 2010
SANS/CWE list of the Top 25 Most Dangerous Software Errors, is discussed
by many as the "standard" of due-diligence for developing secure
applications in many large enterprises. Based on a sub-set of the CWE,
the Top 25 is used by government and industry in procurement language
mandating application security.

## Joe Jarzombek

Joe Jarzombek is the Director for Software Assurance in the National
Cyber Security Division of the U.S. Department of Homeland Security
(DHS). He leads government interagency efforts with industry, academia,
and standards organizations to shift the security paradigm away from
patch management by addressing security needs in work force education
and training, more comprehensive diagnostic capabilities, and
security-enhanced development and acquisition practices. (see
<https://buildsecurityin.us-cert.gov> and <http://www.us-cert/swa>)
After retiring from the U.S. Air Force as a Lt. Col. in program
management, Joe Jarzombek worked in the cyber security industry as vice
president for product and process engineering. He served in two
software-related positions within the Office of the Secretary of Defense
prior to accepting his current DHS position. Throughout his career he
has actively lead process improvement initiatives, including serving on
the CMMI Product Development Team and later on the CMMI Steering Group.
He has continued to co-lead efforts to integrate safety and security
into integrated Capability Maturity Models (CMMs).

[Category:AppSec_DC_2010_Presentations](Category:AppSec_DC_2010_Presentations "wikilink")
[Category:OWASP_Conference_Presentations](Category:OWASP_Conference_Presentations "wikilink")