## Get Connected and Stay Connected

In addition to our [Mailing List](http://bit.ly/fWT3pN) we also have a
[Dallas OWASP Twitter Feed](http://bit.ly/eHEW6O) a [Dallas OWASP
Facebook Page](http://on.fb.me/fHr5XY) and a [Dallas OWASP Linkedin
Group](http://linkd.in/g3WxGG). We invite you to join or follow
whichever groups suit you, get involved with your fellow Dallas OWASP
Chapter members, and we'll keep them all up to date with the latest
official news and announcements from the chapter leadership.

**Click any of the links below to visit the corresponding Dallas OWASP
social networking groups:**

|                                                               |                                                                                  |                                                                               |                                                                   |                                                             |
| ------------------------------------------------------------- | -------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ----------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ----------------------------------------------------------------- | ----------------------------------------------------------- |
| ![Join_the_list.png](Join_the_list.png "Join_the_list.png") | ![Follow-us-on-twitter.png](Follow-us-on-twitter.png "Follow-us-on-twitter.png") | ![Join-us-on-Facebook.jpg](Join-us-on-Facebook.jpg "Join-us-on-Facebook.jpg") | ![Linkedin-button.gif](Linkedin-button.gif "Linkedin-button.gif") | ![meetup-button.png](meetup-button.png "meetup-button.png") |

### Announcements

## November Meeting

**When:** Wednesday, November 6, 2019 - 6:30 PM

'''Topic: ''' CMD+CTRL Web Application Cyber Range

Want to test your skills in identifying web app vulnerabilities? Join
the Dallas OWASP Chapter and Security Innovation as members compete in
CMD+CTRL, a web application cyber range where players exploit their way
through hundreds of vulnerabilities that lurk in business applications
today. Success means learning quickly that attack and defense is all
about thinking on your feet.

For each vulnerability you uncover, you are awarded points. Climb the
interactive leaderboard for a chance to win fantastic prizes\! CMD+CTRL
is ideal for development teams to train and develop skills, but anyone
involved in keeping your organization’s data secure can play - from
developers and managers and even CISOs.

Prizes will be awarded for first, second, and third place finishes.

**Who:** Chad Holmes is a Product Marketing Manager for Security
Innovation with a focus on educating customers on emerging Cyber Range
technologies and how they can improve security education within
organizations. Prior to joining Security Innovation Chad was a
Penetration Tester, Product Manager, Security Program Manager and team
lead at Cigital, Veracode and Red Hat.

**Where:** Toyota Motor North America, Inc. 6565 Headquarters Drive -
Plano

Guests may park in the visitors parking area on Headquarters Dr. right
outside main lobby in front of W1 and E1 buildings. Enter the main lobby
to sign in. Meeting will be in the Corolla W1-0C-18 / Camry W1-0C-30
conference rooms.

IMPORTANT Meeting Notes:

This office is a gun-free zone. Please do not attempt to bring in any
guns, holsters, ammo, etc. into their office space.

The meeting food & drinks will be sponsored by TBD.

### Previous Meetings

## October Meeting

**When:** Tuesday, October 22, 2019 - 6:00 PM

'''Topic: ''' The Pulse of AppSec: 2019 Trends and Insights

**Who:** Phil Guraedy is a Technical Consultant with Micro Focus.

**Where:** Epsilon - 6021 Connection Drive - Irving, TX

## September Meeting

**When:** Tuesday, September 17, 2019 - 6:00 PM

'''Topic: ''' Bug Hunting - An adventure in free time

**Who:** Rich Mirch has been in IT for over 21 years; Rich is currently
a member of the Red Team at State Farm.

**Where:** State Farm Insurance - 3661 N. Plano Rd. Suite 1000 -
Richardson, TX - [Map](Media:Citylink_map.pdf "wikilink")

## July Meeting

**When:** Tuesday, July 23, 2019 - 6:00 PM

'''Topic: ''' Cloud, the Hard Way

**Who:** Will Bengtson is the Director of Cloud Security, Distinguished
Engineer at Capital One.

**Where:** Toyota Motor North America, Inc. - 6565 Headquarters Drive,
Plano, TX

[Media:Cloud_-_The_Hard_Way.pdf](Media:Cloud_-_The_Hard_Way.pdf "wikilink")

## June Meeting

**When:** Tuesday, June 25, 2019 - 6:00 PM

'''Topic: ''' Anti-Phish Codes -- Addressing credential compromise that
lead to Data breaches and Fraud

**Who:** Dr. Chiruvolu brings in more than two decades of expertise,
insights on technology and cyber security in several market verticals
such as Finance, Healthcare, Enterprise and Govt./Education.

**Where:** Capital Factory + The DEC - 3102 Oak Lawn Ave - Dallas, TX

[Media:UberPasscodes-AntiPhishing2FA-PresArchive.pdf](Media:UberPasscodes-AntiPhishing2FA-PresArchive.pdf "wikilink")

## May Meeting

**When:** Thursday, May 23, 2019 - 6:00 PM

'''Topic: ''' Microservices: What Am I Securing Again?

**Who:** Travis Biehn is a Principal Consultant at Synopsys and
consulting research lead for the Synopsys Cybersecurity Research Center.
David Bohannon is a Senior Security Consultant at Synopsys.

**Where:** The Garage at Capital One - 8000 Dominion Pkwy - Plano, TX -
Building with TC out front
[Media:Microservices_OWASP_Preso_Sanitized.pptx](Media:Microservices_OWASP_Preso_Sanitized.pptx "wikilink")

## March Meeting

**When:** Thursday, May 23, 2019 - 6:00 PM

'''Topic: ''' Tineola: Taking a Bite Out of Enterprise Blockchain

**Who:** Stark Riedesel is a senior consultant at Synopsys with six
years of security industry experience.

## February Meeting

**When:** Tuesday, February 19, 2019 - 6:00 PM

'''Topic: ''' Threat-modeling legacy Cloud Applications

**Who:** Kevin Nassery is a Senior Principal Consultant at Synopsys
where he leads the Software Security Initiatives (SSI) practice

**Where:** Epsilon - 6021 Connection Drive - Irving, TX

[Media:Owasp-dallas.pptx](Media:Owasp-dallas.pptx "wikilink")

## January Meeting

**When:** Tuesday, January 15, 2019 - 6:00 PM

'''Topic: ''' Container and Container-Aware Security

**Who:**

Travis Stanfield, Senior Director of Software Engineering at Capital One

Liam Randall, President and Co-Founder of Critical Stack

**Where:** Capital One - 8000 Dominion Pkwy - Plano, TX

[Media:OWASP_dallas_Jan_2019.zip](Media:OWASP_dallas_Jan_2019.zip "wikilink")

## November Meeting

**When:** Tuesday, November 13, 2018 - 6:00 PM

'''Topic: ''' Securing Containers on the High Seas

**Who:** Jack Mannino is the CEO of nVisium.

**Where:** Capital One - 8000 Dominion Pkwy - Plano, TX

## September Meeting

**When:** Tuesday, September 18, 2018 - 6:00 PM

'''Topic: ''' Security Shift Left\! Enable, Protect, and Execute.

**Who:** Teddi Poehls, currently working as a Senior Sales Engineer for
Signal Sciences

**Where:** Epsilon - 6021 Connection Drive, Irving, TX

## August Meeting

**When:** Tuesday, August 21, 2018 - 6:00 PM

'''Topic: ''' Tangled Web

**Who:** Herb has worked for State Farm for over 26 years. He is
currently a member of the Security Analytics/Threat hunting team.

**Where:** State Farm Insurance - 3661 N. Plano Rd. Suite 1000,
Richardson, TX

## July Meeting

**When:** Tuesday, July 17, 2018 - 6:00 PM

'''Topic: ''' Interactive Capture the Flag (CTF) Introduction

**Who:** Gabriel Lawrence is the General Manager of Cyber-Protection at
Toyota

**Where:** Toyota Motor North America, Inc. - 6565 Headquarters Drive,
Plano, TX

## June Meeting

**When:** Tuesday, June 19, 2018 - 6:00 PM

'''Topic: ''' Cloud Jacking

**Who:** Bryan McAninch is a cybersecurity professional with over twenty
years experience in various disciplines including digital forensics,
penetration testing, and security architecture.

**Where:** Toyota Motor North America, Inc. - 6565 Headquarters Drive,
Plano, TX

## April Meeting

**When:** Tuesday, April 17, 2018 - 6:00 PM

'''Topic: ''' Viewing the Nodes in the Noise: Leveraging Data Science to
Discover Persistent Threats

**Who:** David Evenden is an experienced offensive security
operator/analyst with over 10 years of active work experience inside the
Intelligence Community (IC).

**Where:** Allstate - 8711 N. Freeport Parkway - Irving, TX

## March Meeting

**When:** Tuesday, March 20, 2018 - 6:00 PM

'''Topic: ''' DevSecOps Unplugged

**Who:** Vishal Asthana, CISSP has been with Security Compass for over 4
years

**Where:** Akamai - 15950 Dallas Parkway - Dallas, TX

## February Meeting

**When:** Tuesday, February 20, 2018 - 6:00 PM

'''Topic: ''' Bugs in the Blockchain and “Contractual” Vulnerability

**Who:** Stark Riedesel is a software security consultant working for
Synopsys here in the Dallas area.

**Where:** Alliance Data Systems - 7500 Dallas Parkway 7th Floor, Plano,
TX

**Materials**:
[Media:Bugs_in_the_Blockchain.pptx](Media:Bugs_in_the_Blockchain.pptx "wikilink")

## January Meeting

**When:** Tuesday, January 16, 2018 - 6:00 PM

'''Topic: ''' OWASP Top 10 2017

**Who:** Andrew van der Stock is a Senior Principal Consultant with
Synopsys.

**Where:** Toyota Motor North America, Inc. - 6565 Headquarters Drive ·
Plano

## October Meeting

**When:** Tuesday, October 10, 2017 - 6:00 PM

'''Topic: ''' Application Security in the DevOps World

**Who:** Apoorva Phadke is a Senior Security Consultant at Synopsys.

**Where:** Akamai - 15950 Dallas Parkway, Dallas, TX

## September Meeting

**When:** Wednesday, September 13, 2017 - 6:00 PM

'''Topic: ''' Automate All The Things

**Who:** Matt Konda, CEO of Jemurai. Jemurai is a consulting firm
specializing in application security.

**Where:** Epsilon - 6021 Connection Drive, Irving, TX

## August Meeting

**When:** Wednesday, August 15, 2017 - 6:00 PM

'''Topic: ''' Making Vulnerability Management Less Painful with OWASP
DefectDojo

**Who:** Greg Anderson is a security professional and creator of
DefectDojo

**Where:** Intuit

**Materials:**
<https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1DnV-e6TWoH0YexZJpPQeRTD0eeHwWpmsSu-MRjMczwQ/edit?usp=sharing>

## July Meeting

**When:** Wednesday, July 19, 2017 - 6:00 PM

'''Topic: ''' IoT Security Landscape: Survey & Analysis

**Who:** Mark Szewczul, CISSP, is an IoT Security Architect at Zimperium

**Where:** Goldman Sachs - 6011 Connection Drive, Irving, TX 75039,
Dallas, TX

## June Meeting

**When:** Tuesday, June 20, 2017 - 6:00 PM

'''Topic: ''' From Hot Rodding to Hacking, Securing the Modern
Automobile

**Who:** Art Dahnert is a Managing Consultant who has over 19 years of
experience in the software industry with over 8 years Application
Security experience.

**Where:** Toyota - 5360 Legacy Drive, Building 1, 2nd Floor, Plano, TX

**Materials**:
[media:Hot_Rodding_and_Hacking_v3.pdf](media:Hot_Rodding_and_Hacking_v3.pdf "wikilink")

## May Meeting

**When:** Tuesday, May 16, 2017 - 6:00 PM

'''Topic: ''' OWASP Dallas Social

**Who:** OWASP Dallas

**Where:** Dots Hop House & Cocktail Courtyard - 2645 Commerce Street ,
Dallas, TX (map)

## April Meeting

**When:** Monday, April 17, 2017 - 6:00 PM

'''Topic: ''' AWS Security: Staying on Top of the Cloud

**Who:** Kurtis Miller is a Principal Security Consultant for NCC Group,
North America.

**Where:** Goldman Sachs - 6011 Connection Drive, Irving, TX 75039,
Dallas, TX

**Materials**:
[media:AWS_Security_-_Staying_on_Top_of_the_Cloud.pdf](media:AWS_Security_-_Staying_on_Top_of_the_Cloud.pdf "wikilink")

## March Meeting

**When:** Tuesday, March 21, 2017 - 6:00 PM

'''Topic: ''' Secrets Revealed: How Your Competitors are Scaling
Application Security

**Who:** Nishchal Bhalla, is a noted expert, speaker and a published
author who has been in the information security field for two decades.

**Where:** Intuit, Inc. - 5601 Headquarters Dr, Plano, TX

**Materials**:
[media:2017.03_OWASP_Dallas_Presentation_v5.pdf](media:2017.03_OWASP_Dallas_Presentation_v5.pdf "wikilink")
[(More
Info)](https://www.securitycompass.com/managingapplicationsecurity2017/)

## February Meeting

**When:** Tuesday, February 21, 2017 - 6:00 PM

'''Topic: ''' Secure Architecture In The Land of Microservices

**Who:** Jack is the CEO at nVisium and focuses on building solutions to
make security and education scale in fast-paced software development
organizations.

**Where:** 8000 Dominion Pkwy, Plano, TX - Capital One

**Materials**:
[Media:Microservice_Security.pdf](Media:Microservice_Security.pdf "wikilink")

## January Meeting

**When:** January 17 - 6:00 PM

'''Topic: ''' Helping Developers Embrace Security with OWASP Tools

**Who:** Joseph Konieczka is a Lead Technology Solutions Specialist on
the Remedy on Demand infrastructure team at BMC Software.

**Where:** 6011 Connection Drive, Irving, TX 75039, Dallas, TX - Goldman
Sachs

## November Meeting

**When:** Tuesday, November 8, 2016 - 5:30 PM

'''Topic: ''' Privacy Preserving Big Data Analytics

**Who:** Hassan Takabi is Assistant Professor of Computer Science and
Engineering at the University of North Texas, Denton, TX, USA.

**Where:** Epsilon - 6021 Connection Drive, Irving, TX

## October Meeting

**When:** Monday, October 17, 2016 - 5:30 PM

'''Topic: ''' NoSQL: "No Injections" or "No Security"?

**Who:** Stark Riedesel is a Security Consultant for Cigital, an
industry leader in application security.

**Where:** Akamai - 15950 Dallas Parkway, Dallas, TX

## September Meeting

**When:** Monday, September 19, 2016 - 5:30 PM

'''Topic: ''' Web Attacker’s Toolkit: An in depth analysis of RFI in the
wild

**Who:** Tony Lauro is a Lead Sr. Enterprise Security Architect for
Akamai's Web Security division.

**Where:** Akamai - 15950 Dallas Parkway, Dallas, TX

## August Meeting

**When:** Tuesday, August 16, 2016 - 5:30 PM

'''Topic: ''' OWASP Dallas August Social

**Who:** Dallas OWASP Community

**Where:** Braindead Brewing - 2625 Main St, Dallas, TX

## July Meeting

**When:** Tuesday, July 19, 2016 - 5:30 PM

'''Topic: ''' Pen Testing with Powershell

**Who:** Rajganesh Pandurangan is a Lead Managing Consultant at US Bank
and the creator of Web Application Exploitation Distro
(http://www.waed.info)

**Where:** 6011 Connection Drive, Irving, TX 75039, Dallas, TX - Goldman
Sachs

**Materials**:
[Media:OWASP-pentest-with-powershell.pptx](Media:OWASP-pentest-with-powershell.pptx "wikilink")

## June Meeting

**When:** Tuesday, June 21, 2016 - 5:30 PM

'''Topic: ''' Web App Testing Stats Compared to The OWASP Top 10

**Who:** Joel Scambray is a Principal at Cigital.

**Where:** 8000 Dominion Pkwy, Plano, TX - Capital One

**Materials**:
[Media:Cigital_Top10_DallasOWASP-062116.pdf](Media:Cigital_Top10_DallasOWASP-062116.pdf "wikilink")

## May Meeting

**When:** Tuesday, May 17, 2016 - 5:30 PM

'''Topic: ''' Can we do better than Passwords?

**Who:** Dr. Girish Chiruvolu, CISSP, CISM is Director, Information
security and Risk Management at Thomson Reuters, Carrollton TX.

**Where:** 6011 Connection Drive, Irving, TX 75039 - Goldman Sachs.

**Materials**:
[Media:OWASP_May17th_Password-less-logins.pdf](Media:OWASP_May17th_Password-less-logins.pdf "wikilink")

## April Meeting

**When:** Tuesday, April 19, 2016 - 5:30 PM

'''Topic: ''' OWASP Happy Hour

**Who:** OWASP Dallas Members

**Where:** Humperdinks NW Highway - 2208 W Northwest Hwy, Dallas, TX

## March Meeting

**When:** Tuesday, March 15, 2016 - 5:30 PM

'''Topic: ''' Integrating Security into the Software/System Development
Life Cycle (SDLC) Process—Myths and Facts

**Who:** Rick Brunner is an Assistant Faculty member at Collin College
and is an active member of Collin’s Cyber Security Advisory Board.

**Where:** Epsilon - 6021 Connection Drive, Irving, TX.

**Materials**:
[Media:March_2016_OWASP_-_Secure_SDLC_Presentation_and_Related_Material.zip](Media:March_2016_OWASP_-_Secure_SDLC_Presentation_and_Related_Material.zip "wikilink")

## February Meeting

**When:** Wednesday, February 17, 2016 - 5:30 PM

'''Topic: ''' DNS Attack Vectors

**Who:** John Devasia is a Senior Product Manager in the Cloud Security
BU at Akamai Technologies.

**Where:** 6011 Connection Drive, Irving, TX 75039 - Goldman Sachs.

## January Meeting

**When:** Tuesday, January 19, 2016 - 5:30 PM

'''Topic: ''' Bountiful Bugs and DRM Breakage

**Who:** Dave Ferguson is a Solution Architect at Qualys and has been a
specialist in Application Security since 2006.

**Where:** 6011 Connection Drive, Irving, TX 75039 - Goldman Sachs.

## November Meeting

**When:** Tuesday, November 17th, 2015 from 5:30 PM – ?:?? PM

'''Topic: ''' OWASP Dallas Happy Hour

**Where:** Mexican Sugar at Shops at Legacy - 7501 Lone Star Drive,
Suite 8150, Plano, TX

## October Meeting

**When:** Wednesday October 7th, 2015 from 11:30 AM – 1:00 PM

'''Topic: ''' Anatomy of a Logic Flaw

**Who:** Charles Henderson is the Vice President of Managed Security
Testing at Trustwave.

**Where:** 6011 Connection Drive, Irving, TX 75039.

## September Meeting

**When:** Thursday September 17th, 2015 from 5:30PM – 6:30 PM

'''Topic: ''' Application Security Trends

**Who:** Stephen Pasco is a Vice President of Application Risk at
Goldman Sachs

**Where:** 6011 Connection Drive, Irving, TX 75039.

## May Meeting

**When:** Wednesday May 6, 2015 from 11:30 AM – 1:00 PM

'''Topic: ''' The Future of Mobile Payments: Secure Mobile Architecture

**Who:** Denis M. Sheridan is a Managing Consultant at Cigital.

**Where:** North Lake College Central Campus, 5001 North MacArthur
Boulevard, Irving, Texas 75038, Room: A-215

## October Meeting

**When:** Wednesday October 1, 2014 from 11:30 AM – 1:00 PM

'''Topic: '''Succeeding with Enterprise Software Security Key
Performance Indicators

**Who:** Rafal Los, Director, Office of the CISO

**Where:** Richland College, 12800 Abrams Road, Dallas, TX 75243, Room:
Sabine Hall: SH117

## March Meeting

**When:** Wednesday March 5, 2014 from 11:30 AM – 1:00 PM

'''Topic: ''' OWASP Dallas basic Python tutorial

**Who:** Matt Parsons, CISSP MSM

**Where:** Richland College, 12800 Abrams Road, Dallas, TX 75243, Room:
Sabine Hall: SH117

## September Meeting

**When:** Wednesday September 11, 2013 from 11:30 AM – 1:00 PM

'''Topic: ''' PCI Mobile Payment Acceptance Security Guidelines for
Developers

**Who:** Ralph Spencer Poore, Director, Emerging Standards at PCI
Security Standards Council

**Where:** Richland College, 12800 Abrams Road, Dallas, TX 75243, Room:
Sabine Hall: SH117

**Slides**: [Media:Dallas OWASP
9-11-2013.pdf](Media:Dallas_OWASP_9-11-2013.pdf "wikilink")

## May Meeting

**When:** Wednesday May 8, 2013 from 11:30 AM – 1:00 PM

'''Topic: ''' Implementation Patterns for Software Security Programs

**Who:** Dan Cornell, Principal, Denim Group

**Where:** Richland College, 12800 Abrams Road, Dallas, TX 75243, Room:
Sabine Hall: SH117

[Map](http://www.richlandcollege.edu/map/)

## February Meeting

**When:** Wednesday February 6, 2013 from 11:30 AM – 1:00 PM

'''Topic: ''' Using Webappsec Vulns to Break Censorship

**Who:** Robert Hansen, a.k.a. rsnake

**Where:** Richland College, 12800 Abrams Road, Dallas, TX 75243, Room:
Sabine Hall: SH117

[Map](http://www.richlandcollege.edu/map/)

`__NOTOC__`

<headertabs></headertabs>

[Category:Texas](Category:Texas "wikilink")