David has been involved with the IT industry for the past 20 years and
for the latter half of that time have been primarily focused on
Information Security.

He spent several years performing penetration testing and security
assessments, utilizing quite a number of tools and techniques. The
clients ranged in size from very small office spaces to large
state-owned data centers.

Training is also one of his passions, and his experience includes
teaching post-assessment security awareness classes. David was also a
trainer at Dell where he instructed new hire classes and designed a
curriculum to teach troubleshooting and problem-solving methodology. He
occasionally teaches CISSP prep classes at Austin Community College
covering the topics of Cryptography and Security Architecture.

More recently, David served as Director of Information Security for
Temple Inland, a Fortune 500 company. He is currently a Sr. Security
Assurance Analyst at General Motors, where he performs penetration
testing and red team exercises.

David is also currently President of the Austin, TX. chapter of OWASP
and chair for the 2013 LASCON conference. He also served as a chair for
AppSecUSA 2012 in Austin and held a leadership role in previous LASCON
conferences. David's goal over the past two years has been to bring the
best speakers and training opportunities to the Information Security
community in Austin.

David has also been heavily involved in the past with the Austin Chapter
of ISSA. David has also presented at several chapter meetings and
conferences on a variety of Information Security topics.

David resides in Austin, TX with his wife, Christine, and three
children, Rachel, Rebekah and Iain. He has lived in Austin for 17 years.
His hobbies (aside from anything security-related) include 3D rendering,
playing the guitar, and reading weighty theology books.