![468x60-banner-2010.gif](468x60-banner-2010.gif
"468x60-banner-2010.gif")

[Registration](https://guest.cvent.com/EVENTS/Register/IdentityConfirmation.aspx?e=d52c6f5f-d568-4e16-b8e0-b5e2bf87ab3a)
|
[Hotel](https://resweb.passkey.com/Resweb.do?mode=welcome_gi_new&groupID=2766908)
| [Walter E. Washington Convention
Center](http://www.dcconvention.com/)
\== The presentation ==

![Andrew_Weidenhamer.jpg](Andrew_Weidenhamer.jpg
"Andrew_Weidenhamer.jpg")The fact that many organizations don't perform
security unless they have to, significantly contributes to more than 80%
of all web applications being exposed to vulnerabilities. In comes
regulation. There are a number of different industries other than
financial and healthcare that deal with PII and PHI but either are not
regulated at all or are regulated very loosely. This presentation will
discuss the various regulations (PCI, SOX, HIPAA, etc) and what each
does to address web application security, if any, as well as the
shortcomings of each. Finally, it will address further industries that
need to be more strictly regulated in order to better protect personal
information.

## Andrew Weidenhamer

Andrew Weidenhamer (CISA, QSA) joined SecureState as a professional hire
in January 2008. As a former member of the Profiling Team, Andrew
performed technical security assessments on a weekly basis. These
assessments included Internal and External Attack and Penetration
Assessments, Wireless Penetration Assessments, Web Application Security
Reviews, Physical Penetration Tests, and Social Engineering Assessments.
Currently, Andrew manages the Audit and Compliance Team, where he
performs Enterprise Risk Assessments, Audits, Pre-Audits, and Gap
Assessments (PCI, HIPAA, etc).

Prior to SecureState, Andrew worked at Key Bank as a Security Analyst.
Andrew is a graduate of Ohio University with a BS in Computer
Engineering and a minor in Mathematics

[Category:AppSec_DC_2010_Presentations](Category:AppSec_DC_2010_Presentations "wikilink")
[Category:OWASP_Conference_Presentations](Category:OWASP_Conference_Presentations "wikilink")