![468x60-banner-2010.gif](468x60-banner-2010.gif
"468x60-banner-2010.gif")

[Registration](https://guest.cvent.com/EVENTS/Register/IdentityConfirmation.aspx?e=d52c6f5f-d568-4e16-b8e0-b5e2bf87ab3a)
|
[Hotel](https://resweb.passkey.com/Resweb.do?mode=welcome_gi_new&groupID=2766908)
| [Walter E. Washington Convention
Center](http://www.dcconvention.com/)
\== The presentation ==

![Chris_Eng.jpg](Chris_Eng.jpg "Chris_Eng.jpg") ColdFusion is a
somewhat forgotten but still very prevalent web application development
platform. This presentation is a technical survey of ColdFusion security
that will be of interest mostly to code auditors, penetration testers,
and developers. In the talk, we’ll cover the history of the ColdFusion
platform and its relevance to today’s security landscape. We’ll describe
basics of ColdFusion markup, control flow, functions, and components and
demonstrate how to identify common web application vulnerabilities in
the source code. We’ll also delve into ColdFusion J2EE internals,
showing what CFML pages and components look like when compiled down to
Java, and describing some of the unusual behavior we’ve observed at that
level. We'll discuss open-source tools to aid reverse engineers in
working with ColdFusion's proprietary classfile format.

## Chris Eng

Chris Eng is Senior Director of Research at Veracode, where he helps
define and implement the security analysis capabilities of Veracode’s
service offerings. He is a regular speaker at information security
conferences including BlackHat, OWASP, and RSA, and has presented on a
diverse set of application security topics ranging from attacking
cryptography to building an SDLC. Chris’ professional experience
includes stints at Symantec, @stake, and the US Department of Defense,
where he specialized in software security assessments, penetration
testing, and vulnerability research. Along with experts from more than
30 US and international cyber security organizations, he recently helped
develop the CWE/SANS Top 25 Most Dangerous Programming Errors.

[Category:AppSec_DC_2010_Presentations](Category:AppSec_DC_2010_Presentations "wikilink")
[Category:OWASP_Conference_Presentations](Category:OWASP_Conference_Presentations "wikilink")