## The presentation

![Michael_Coates.jpg](Michael_Coates.jpg "Michael_Coates.jpg")Ask any
attacker how many attempts it takes them to successfully exploit a
vulnerability - two attempts, three, five? In general, an attacker
requires several attempts before they can devise a successful exploit.
And that is only after they've probed the site to find the vulnerable
areas in the first place. Most applications are missing a critical
opportunity, the attacker has made their presence known while probing
for the vulnerability. Take defensive action and shut down the offending
account\! This presentation will continue the discussion on AppSensor, a
strategy for implementing automatic attack detection and real time
response to eliminate the threat of an attacker. During this
presentation we will explore a new online application which implements
AppSensor. The concepts discussed in this presentation can be
immediately integrated into enterprise applications looking to bolster
their security posture against determined attackers. We will see that
the required changes have a minimal impact on the architecture of the
application and require only a small amount of code change. However,
there are immense benefits to detecting malicious attackers before they
are successful.

## The speaker

Michael Coates is a Senior Application Security Engineer for Aspect
Security and has performed numerous penetration assessments, security
code reviews, and security training sessions for leading corporations
worldwide. Michael is the creator and leader of the AppSensor project
and holds a Masters Degree in Computer Security from DePaul University.
In addition to application security, in previous years Michael has been
a lead in the detection and response center for a global fortune 100
corporation, assessed the security of telecommunication networks and
performed social engineering testing for financial institutions.

[Category:OWASP_AppSec_DC_09](Category:OWASP_AppSec_DC_09 "wikilink")
[Category:OWASP_Conference_Presentations](Category:OWASP_Conference_Presentations "wikilink")