Applications can be categorized by the business functionality from an
enterprise perspective and it can also be categorized based on how and
where they run.

## Application categorization based on the business functionality

**Business to Customer(B2C) Applications** These are in general customer
facing applications. Most of these are web/browser based applications.
It includes dynamic content based web sites. Some of these applications
can be client based application that needs to be installed on customer's
computing device (laptop/desktop).

Examples

  - Ordering System
  - Customer Support System
  - Web sites providing product information
  - Applets/Active-X lightweight clients
  - Clients that gets installed on customer devices

**Business to Business (B2B) Applications** These applications are used
between business partners like suppliers, resellers etc. Traditionally
these applications are accessed using dedicated lines between business
partners. Lately many of these applications directly use Internet with
security features such as VPNs. Many of these applications are based on
SOA (Service oriented architecture) and leverage web-services.

Examples:

  - Parts ordering and status system
  - Bulk Order submission web service

**Internal Applications** These applications are used within the
organization (Intranet) and are not exposed/available outside the
enterprise. These include web based applications as well as desktop
applications such as email/IM.

Examples:

  - HR Systems
  - Internal Financial and ERP System
  - IT Desktop support system
  - Email clients

## Application categorization based on on how and where they run

**Front-End Applications** These are the applications that interact with
users through GUI such as browser, desktop client etc.

Examples:

  - Order status checking system
  - Email clients

**Background Applications** These applications does not directly
interact with the user. These are typically background processes and
jobs.

Examples

  - Background Order validation Job
  - Nightly data Synchronization scripts

**Services based Applications/Interfaces** Provides an integration point
to other applications and systems. Web Services is widely used standard.

Examples

  - customer data retrieval web service
  - Google's SOAP Search API

## External Resources

**[Business Plan Writer](http://www.bizplancorner.com/) | [Business Plan
Writers](http://www.bizplancorner.com/articles/22/business-plan-writers.aspx)
| [Business Plan Writing
Service](http://www.bizplancorner.com/articles/1/business_plan_writing_service.aspx)
| [Business Plan
Service](http://www.bizplancorner.com/articles/24/business-plan-service.aspx)**

[Category:OWASP Application Security Assessment Standards
Project](Category:OWASP_Application_Security_Assessment_Standards_Project "wikilink")