### Dan Cornell: Static Analysis Techniques for Testing Application Security

Static Analysis of software refers to examining source code and other
software artifacts without executing them. This presentation looks at
how these techniques can be used to identify security defects in
applications. Approaches examined will range from simple keyword search
methods used to identify calls to banned functions through more
sophisticated data flow analysis used to identify more complicated
issues such as injection flaws. In addition, a demonstration will be
given of two freely-available static analysis tools: FindBugs for the
Java platform and FXCop for the .NET platform. Finally, some approaches
will be presented on how organizations can start using static analysis
tools as part of their development and quality assurance processes.

**Dan Cornell** has over ten years of experience architecting and
developing web-based software systems. He leads Denim Group’s security
research team in investigating the application of secure coding and
development techniques to improve web-based software development
methodologies.

Dan was the founding coordinator and chairman for the Java Users Group
of San Antonio (JUGSA) and is currently the San Antonio chapter leader
of the Open Web Application Security Project (OWASP). He is a recognized
expert in the area of web application security for
SearchSoftwareQuality.com and the primary author of
[Sprajax](http://www.owasp.org/index.php/Category:OWASP_Sprajax_Project),
OWASP’s open source tool for assessing the security of AJAX-enabled web
applications.

[Slide deck
(PPT)](https://www.owasp.org/images/1/1d/DenimGroup_StaticAnalysisTechniquesForTestingApplicationSecurity_OWASPDenver_20080820.pdf)

[Back to OWASP Denver](https://www.owasp.org/index.php/Denver)