## Wednesday 22 September 2010, 6pm @ [Hosting.com](http://maps.google.com/maps?f=q&source=s_q&hl=en&q=hosting.com&sll=39.699262,-104.986725&sspn=0.159814,0.258522&ie=UTF8&radius=8.24&split=1&rq=1&ev=zi&hq=hosting.com&hnear=&ll=39.699262,-104.986725&spn=0.159814,0.258522&z=12&iwloc=A) [RSVP Now\!](http://denverowasp.eventbrite.com/)

### Eric Duprey: "Application Vulnerability Shooting Gallery"

*How vulnerabilities make it into your business applications, how to
find them, and how to kill them - Laptop recommended*

Despite years of publicity, the common classes of web application
vulnerabilities remain essentially unchanged. Lists of the most common
and important vulnerabilities in application software (the OWASP Top 10,
for example) are nearly identical from 2003 to today, and the prevalence
of these vulnerabilities remains alarmingly high. One thing that is
still clearly lacking is awareness of common and serious
vulnerabilities, how they are detected, how they are exploited, and how
they can be systematically eliminated.

This is a hands-on presentation which will demonstrate common
vulnerabilities in various real-world-like applications. It will cover
discovering vulnerabilities at runtime, identifying them in source code,
and uniform ways to fix these vulnerabilities using open and freely
available tools.

(It is recommended to bring a laptop to this event if possible -- while
it is possible to gain benefit from the presentation without it, having
a laptop present will enable you to jump into hands-on tactical examples
in real-time)

Presenter: **Eric Duprey**

Eric Duprey is the co-chapter-leader of the Denver OWASP Chapter and a
Senior Security Consultant with FishNet Security. For several years,
Eric has been performing application security assessments, penetration
testing and source code review for major enterprise companies and
working with application developers to remediate vulnerable code. Eric
has presented talks at major security conferences including DEFCON and
SANS penetration testing summit.

### Agenda

  - 6pm: Pizza & pop, sponsored by FishNet Security
  - 6:30pm: Introduction and Chapter business
  - 6:45pm --\> 8pm: Presentation
  - 8pm and later: Beer and ping pong hosted by Hosting.com

[Back to OWASP Denver](https://www.owasp.org/index.php/Denver)