## About the chapter

The Denver OWASP chapter is comprised of Denver metro area (and beyond)
professionals and is constantly evolving. In the early years, our
chapter meetups consisted of <b>3-5</b> people talking about appsec in a
donated meeting space. From there we have migrated to holding meetings
of <b>15-25</b> people at the Hosting.com building in Denver, to
<b>30-40</b> people on the Community College of Aurora campus, to maxing
out capacity at the Chinook Tavern to our current location of Dave &
Busters (maxing out the <b>120+</b> capacity at this venue as well on
many nights). The Denver OWASP chapter is about the community,
application security, and discussing advances in technology that impact
us all.
Chapter Meetings are held the 3rd Wednesday of designated months, see
the [MeetUp.com](http://www.meetup.com/Denver-OWASP/) site for regular
updates and meeting information.

A large part of why 100+ people regularly attend our meetings is due to
our presenters (spectacular networking with intelligent individuals
coupled with great food and drinks certainly helps). As such, we are
always looking for talented speakers ready to share interesting
information on a wide variety of topics: Please reach out to Denver
OWASP Chapter Leader Steve Kosten: steve 'dot' kosten 'at' owasp.org if
you are interested in presenting at one of our regular meetups.

\--

### THANK YOU TO OUR SPONSORS

![<File:SolutionsIILogo.jpg>](SolutionsIILogo.jpg
"File:SolutionsIILogo.jpg")

A big thank you to [Solutions II](http://solutions-ii.com/) for being
our primary monthly meeting sponsor (ongoing now for several years)\!\!
It is much appreciated\!

Solutions II is nationally recognized for world class innovation in
virtualization, business continuance, data lifecycle management and
information security, networking and compliance. Solutions II’s security
practice specializes in risk and compliance, including mobile device
management, SIEM, Next Generation Firewalls, IDS/IPS, encryption and
more. Solutions II assists clients every day to leverage technologies
and services that drive the cost out of IT. Solutions II's commitment to
success includes a professional services practice dedicated to
increasing customer service levels and decreasing the time and support
required for implementations to keep their Clients "Performing Ahead of
the Curve.”. --\> -- All chapter meetings will be announced via email to
those who sign up for Denver OWASP from this page and also at our [:
Denver OWASP Meetup location](http://www.meetup.com/Denver-OWASP/)
**Thanks to [Solutions II](http://solutions-ii.com/) for providing food
and drinks for our meetings...** --\>

## Chapter Board of Directors

Here's the team that's putting it all together:

  - Chairman/Chapter Leader - Steve Kosten
  - Board Member: Serge Borso
  - Board Member: Aaron Cure
  - Board Member: Matt Shufeldt
  - Board Member: Kathy Thaxton
  - Board Member: Frank Vianzon

\-- NOTE: PLEASE CONSIDER FOLLOWING US AT @OWASP303 ON TWITTER AND/OR
[SUBSCRIBE TO THE MAILING
LIST](http://lists.owasp.org/mailman/listinfo/owasp-denver) AND/OR join
the OWASP Denver Linked In group.

`=====Missed the con?=====`

  - [Vids from
    Schmoocon 2011](http://www.reddit.com/r/netsec/comments/fgetw/shmoocon_2011_video_collection/)
  - [Vids
    from 27c3](http://media.ccc.de/browse/congress/2010/index.html)
  - [Vids from
    AppsecDC 2010](http://vimeo.com/groups/asdc10/videos/sort:newest)

\--\>

##### OWASP Podcast

[OWASP Podcast](http://www.owasp.org/index.php/OWASP_Podcast)

\-- =====Wassup Boulder===== Boulder has built a strong chapter over the
past 3 years. Any individuals up north of Denver have a great resource.
We hope to share some resources and communication with the Boulder
chapter. If you're interested in meeting with the Boulder chapter please
let us know\!

<paypal>Denver</paypal>

<hr>

\--\>

## Questions, Comments

Questions can be directed to

  - Steve Kosten, Denver OWASP: steve 'dot' kosten 'at' owasp.org

<hr />

\--

#### Chapter Meetings

Meetings are usually the 3rd Wednesday of every other month. If you
can't make the Denver meeting, the [Boulder](Boulder "wikilink") meeting
is usually the 3rd Thursday of the month.

\--\>

## Past Meetings

As you can tell we have been doing this for quite some time with
regularity. Some of our older presentations are listed below

**All meetings after July 2014 may be found on our [: Denver OWASP
Meetup Site](http://www.meetup.com/Denver-OWASP/)**

[July 2014:Andy Earle: "Static Analysis: Beyond the
Basics"](July_2014:Andy_Earle:_"Static_Analysis:_Beyond_the_Basics" "wikilink")

[March 2014:Matt Shufeldt: "Data
Breaches"](March_2014:Matt_Shufeldt:_"Data_Breaches" "wikilink")

[July 2013: Jim Manico: "Secure Coding Techniques Part
2"](Denver_July_2013 "wikilink")

[June 2013: Aaron Cure: "Less Frequently talked about
vulnerabilities"](Denver_June_2013 "wikilink")

[April 2013: Matt Schufeldt: "Security in the
SDLC"](Denver_April_2013 "wikilink")

[March 2013: Jim Manico: "Secure Coding
Techniques"](Denver_March_2013 "wikilink")

[February 2013: Chris Roberts: "The Evolution of
Hacking"](Denver_February_2013 "wikilink")

[July 2013: Dave Ferguson: "Building a Successful Application Security
Program"](Denver_January_2013 "wikilink")

[June 2012: Laz: Emerging Threats](Denver_June_2012 "wikilink")

[May 2012: Steve Kosten: XSS
hands-on](Denver_May_2012_meeting "wikilink")

[April 18th 2012: Tim Van Cleave "Intro to WebScarab and
WebGoat"](Denver_April_2012_meeting "wikilink")

Denver January 2012 meeting January 18th, 2012 | Greg Knaddison ["How
Does Drupal Security Stack
up?"](http://2011.badcamp.net/program/sessions/how-does-drupal-security-stack)

[September 14th 2011: Chris Schmidt "OWASP
ESAPI"](Denver_September_2011_meeting "wikilink")

[March 17th 2011: Hands on "Hack a
Thon"](Denver_March_2011_meeting "wikilink")

[September 22nd 2010: Eric Duprey: Application Vulnerability Shooting
Gallery](Denver_September_2010_meeting "wikilink")

[August 18th 2010: Clint Pollock: Protecting Your Applications from
Backdoors](Denver_August_2010_meeting "wikilink")

[June 2nd 2010: Front Range OWASP
Conference](Front_Range_OWASP_Conference_2010 "wikilink")

[January 20th 2010: John Evans: Securing Webapps: An Illustrative
Overview](Denver_January_2010_meeting "wikilink")

[November 18th 2009: Anton Rager: Advanced
XSS](Denver_November_2009_meeting "wikilink")

[August 27th 2009: Jon Rose: Security in the
Clouds](Denver_August_2009_meeting "wikilink")

[May 2009: Dr. Joseph McComb & and Daniel Weiske: Compliance and
application security testing](Denver_May_2009_meeting "wikilink")

[March 2009: Front Range OWASP Conference
(SnowFROC)](Front_Range_OWASP_Conference_2009 "wikilink")

[January 2009: David Campbell & Eric Duprey: Guided Tour: AppSec NYC '08
CTF](Denver_January_2009_meeting "wikilink")

[October 2008: Alex Smolen: The OWASP ASP .NET
ESAPI](Denver_October_2008_meeting "wikilink")

[September 2008: John Dickson: Black Box vs. White Box: Different App
Testing Strategies](Denver_September_2008_meeting "wikilink")

[August 2008: Dan Cornell: Static
Analysis](Denver_August_2008_meeting "wikilink")

[July 2008: David Byrne & Eric Duprey:
Grendel-Scan](Denver_July_2008_meeting "wikilink")

[June 2008: Front Range OWASP Conference: Jeremiah Grossman, Robert
Hansen, and more\!](Front_Range_OWASP_Conference "wikilink")

[May 2008: David Campbell & Eric Duprey: XSS Attacks &
Defenses](Denver_May_2008_meeting "wikilink")

[April 2008: Ryan Barnett: Virtual Patching with
ModSecurity](Denver_April_2008_meeting "wikilink")

[February 2008: Michael Sutton: SQL Injection
Revisited](Denver_February_2008_meeting "wikilink")

[June 2007](Denver_June_2007_meeting "wikilink")

[April 2007](Denver_April_2007_meeting "wikilink")

[February 2007](Denver_February_2007_meeting "wikilink")

[January 2007](Denver_January_2007_meeting "wikilink")

[November 2006](Denver_November_2006_meeting "wikilink")

## [Local Organizations of Interest](Related_Organizations "wikilink")

#### Mailing List

Join the [OWASP Denver Mailing
List](http://lists.owasp.org/mailman/listinfo/owasp-denver) to receive
meeting notifications via email

\--

#### Twitter Feed @owasp303

Denver OWASP has created a [Twitter feed
@owasp303](http://twitter.com/owasp303) to keep you in the loop. Whilst
the mailing list is primarily intended to be low-traffic and only
provide updates regarding the times, locations, and topics for chapter
meetings, the Twitter feed will also provide noteworthy appsec updates.

|                                                                                                                                       |                                                                                                                |                                                            |  |
| ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ---------------------------------------------------------- |  |
| style="border: 1px solid rgb(204, 204, 204); width: 100%; font-size: 95%; color: rgb(0, 0, 0); background-color: rgb(236, 236, 236);" | **@OWASP303 Twitter Feed ([follow us on Twitter\!](http://twitter.com/OWASP303))** <twitter>55021150</twitter> | style="width: 110px; font-size: 95%; color: rgb(0, 0, 0);" |  |

\--\>

##### Key OWASP Resources

  - <http://www.owasp.org/images/4/41/ASVS_One_Page_Handout.pdf>
  - <http://www.owasp.org/images/3/31/ESAPI_One_Page_Handout.pdf>
  - <http://www.owasp.org/images/a/a1/Legal_One_Page_Handout.pdf>
  - <http://www.owasp.org/images/a/a3/How_ESAPI_Works.pdf>
  - <http://www.owasp.org/images/a/ac/LAMP_Should_be_Spelled_LAMPE.pdf>
  - <http://www.owasp.org/images/0/01/Getting_started_designing_for_a_level_of_assurance.pdf>
  - <http://www.owasp.org/index.php/Agile_Software_Development:_Don%27t_Forget_EVIL_User_Stories>
  - <http://www.owasp.org/index.php/Man_vs._Code>
  - <http://www.owasp.org/images/4/4e/OWASP_ASVS_2009_Web_App_Std_Release.pdf>
  - <http://www.owasp.org/images/c/cd/PHP-ESAPI_1.0a_install.pdf>
  - <http://www.owasp.org/images/6/67/PHP-ESAPI_1.0a_ReleaseNotes.pdf>

##### Chapter Management Links

[Denver OWASP Chapter SOPs](Chapter_SOPs "wikilink")

__NOTOC__ <headertabs />

[Category:OWASP Chapter](Category:OWASP_Chapter "wikilink")
[Category:United_States](Category:United_States "wikilink")
[Category:Colorado](Category:Colorado "wikilink")