### John Dickson: Black Box vs. White Box: Different App Testing Strategies

Competing approaches for application security testing have pros and
cons. This presentation will look at and discuss a number of security
assessment strategies including white box testing, black box testing,
static analysis and dynamic analysis.

[Download the
presentation](https://www.owasp.org/images/e/e5/BBvsWB_Denver.pdf)

BIO – John Dickson

John Dickson is a principal at \[www.denimgroup.com Denim Group, Ltd.\]
and a Certified Information Systems Security Professional (CISSP) whose
technical background includes hands-on experience with intrusion
detection systems, telephony security and application security. He has
consulted with Fortune 500 clients, Department of Defense organizations
and numerous Chief Information Officers regarding their organizations’
security programs and has served as Chief Information Security Officer
for a major healthcare organization.

John Dickson is a former U.S. Air Force officer who specialized in
network defense and command and control while on active duty and Air
Force Reserves. He joined Denim Group after holding several leadership
positions at high profile organizations including Regional Vice
President of International Operations and Director of Consulting at
SecureLogix Corporation, Senior Account Manager at Trident Data Systems
and Manager at KPMG’s Information Risk Management consulting practice.
In these positions, he specialized in network penetration projects,
firewall project management, enterprise security reviews, security
architecture development, intrusion detection and more.

John regularly speaks in front of numerous security groups including the
Information Systems Security Association (ISSA) and the Information
Systems Audit and Control Association (ISACA). He has also presented at
several conferences including CSI 2007, the annual Computer Security
Institute Conference, the Texas Regional Infrastructure Security
Conference (TRISC) and ConSec 2006. He is a founder and chairman of the
San Antonio Technology Accelerator Initiative (SATAI), a founder of the
Alamo Chapter of ISSA and the Chairman Elect of the North San Antonio
Chamber of Commerce.

He holds a Bachelor of Science degree from Texas A\&M University, a
Master of Science degree from Trinity University in San Antonio, Texas,
and an MBA from the University of Texas at Austin.

More about John: <http://www.denimgroup.com/about_team_john.html>

[Back to OWASP Denver](https://www.owasp.org/index.php/Denver)