'''The April 2008 meeting of the DENVER OWASP chapter was held Wednesday
16 April 2008 at Raytheon Polar Services, 7400 S. Tucson Way,
Centennial, CO 80112. [gMaps Link](http://xrl.us/bhyyk)

### Topic: Ryan Barnett: Virtual Patching for Web Applications with ModSecurity

[Ryan's
Slides](https://www.owasp.org/images/f/f5/OWASP_Dynamic_Vulnerability_Remediation.pdf)

[DC's Informal Notes from Meeting](DC_barnett_notes_apr08 "wikilink")

Fixing identified vulnerabilities in web application always requires
time. Organizations often do not have access to a commercial
application's source code and are at the vendor's mercy while waiting
for a patch. Even if they have access to the code, implementing a patch
in development takes time. This leaves a window of opportunity for the
attacker to exploit. External patching (also called "just-in-time
patching" and "virtual patching") is one of the biggest advantages of
web application firewalls as they can fix this problem externally. A fix
for a specific vulnerability is usually very easy to design and in most
cases it can be done in less than 15 minutes. This presentation will
outline exactly when and where Virtual Patching is appropriate and will
show the proper steps for their creation and testing.

Agenda:

6-6:30 Dinner (at RPSC; provided by [Breach
Security](http://www.breach.com/).

6:30 - 6:40 Chapter business

6:40 - 8:00 Presentation and Q\&A

### **Ryan C. Barnett**

Ryan C. Barnett is a recognized security thought leader and evangelist
who frequently speaks with the media and industry groups.

He is the director of application security at Breach Security. He is
also a faculty member for the SANS Institute, where his duties include
instructor/courseware developer for Apache Security/Building a Web
Application Firewall Workshop, Top 20 Vulnerabilities Team Member and
Local Mentor for the SANS Track 4, "Hacker Techniques, Exploits and
Incident Handling" course. He holds six SANS Global Information
Assurance Certifications (GIAC): Intrusion Analyst (GCIA), Systems and
Network Auditor (GSNA), Forensic Analyst (GCFA), Incident Handler
(GCIH), Unix Security Administrator (GCUX) and Security Essentials
(GSEC).

Mr. Barnett also serves as the team lead for the Center for Internet
Security Apache Benchmark Project and is a member of the Web Application
Security Consortium. His web security book, ["Preventing Web Attacks
with
Apache‚Äù](http://www.amazon.com/Preventing-Attacks-Apache-Ryan-Barnett/dp/0321321286)
was published by Addison/Wesley in 2006.

-----

[Back to OWASP Denver](https://www.owasp.org/index.php/Denver)