### Centralized Security Functionality In a .NET World – The OWASP .NET ESAPI Project

[Slide Deck](https://www.owasp.org/images/e/e3/OWASP_.NET_ESAPI.zip)

The Enterprise Security Application Programming Interface, or ESAPI, is
a one-stop security shop for developers looking to implement security
mechanisms in their code. The brainchild of Jeff Williams, one of the
founders of OWASP, the ESAPI is an open source project that has gained
traction with organizations looking to implement secure applications
using tried and tested code that is also well organized and consistent.
It includes functionality for validating and encoding data,
authenticating and authorizing users, logging, error handling, and more.
The API includes a Java reference implementation that can be extended to
allow any organization to integrate security functionality into their
Java/JEE applications.

But what about .NET? Many organizations are banking on the powerful
Microsoft programming framework to help them deliver robust and secure
software. However, like Java, .NET tends to leave it up to the end-user
programmers to get security code right. The OWASP .NET ESAPI project
intends to help .NET developers avoid introducing security
vulnerabilities into their code by providing a full port of the original
ESAPI project from Java to C\#.

This talk will explore the gains, gripes, and gotchas of converting the
ESAPI to .NET from the .NET ESAPI project lead himself. It will discuss
features of the .NET frameworks security model, key differences between
the Java and .NET platforms, and ASP.NET web security issues.
Additionally, future ideas for .NET specific functionality will be
proposed and discussed. Participation and feedback from the attendees is
expected and encouraged.

### Speaker: Alex Smolen of Foundstone

### Alex Smolen of Foundstone

Alex Smolen is a Software Security Consultant at Foundstone, where he
provides security consulting services to clients to help find, fix, and
prevent security vulnerabilities in enterprise software. His duties
include threat modeling, code review, penetration testing, and secure
software development lifecycle (S-SDLC) design and implementation. He is
also an instructor for the Writing Secure Code, Building Secure
Software, and Ultimate Web Hacking courses.

Experience Alex has been working in software development for a decade
and has participated in and led several development projects in ASP.NET,
Java, and Ruby on Rails. His primary interests include the integration
of security into software development life cycles, evaluating the
business impact of information security, and the security of emerging
technologies. Alex is a contributing member of the software security
community and has participated in several open-source security projects.

Prior to joining Foundstone, Alex was the Security Solutions Manager at
Parasoft Corporation, where he led the development of tools and
methodologies for helping clients ensure application security from the
ground up.

Notable Accomplishments Alex is one of 24 recipients worldwide of the
Microsoft MVP Award for Visual Developer, Security Alex has spoken at
the following conferences: • Enterprise Architect Summit, 2005

• Better Software, 2005

• OWASP Conference, 2005

• SD West, 2007

• SD Best Practices, 2007

Alex has published the following articles: • Enterprise Architect, “Is
Your Application Security Up to Spec?” • Java Developers Journal, “How
to Create Secure Web Applications With Struts”

Alex is the author of [Hacme
Casino](http://www.foundstone.com/us/resources/proddesc/hacmecasino.htm),
available on Foundstone’s web site.

Professional Education

Alex graduated from the University of California, Berkeley, with a BS in
Electrical Engineering and Computer Science (EECS).

### Hack of the Month: ClickJacking

A brief introduction to Browser UI redress attacks (known as
ClickJacking) was presented by Eric Duprey

[Slide
Deck](https://www.owasp.org/images/2/24/0808_Denver_Clickjacking.zip)

[Back to OWASP Denver](https://www.owasp.org/index.php/Denver)