## Thursday 27 August 2009, 6pm @ [Raytheon Polar Services](http://maps.google.com/maps?f=q&hl=en&q=7400%20S%20Tucson%20Way%2C%20Englewood%2C%20CO)

### Topic: Security in the Clouds

Note: Jon is giving this talk at
[AppsecDC2009](http://www.owasp.org/index.php/Cloudy_with_a_chance_of_0-day)
so we'll post his slides after that.

Synopsis: This talk provides a brief overview of cloud computing, and
reveals the security risks of moving into the clouds. The concept behind
cloud computing is simple: use a hosting providerâ€™s IT resources to
expand or shrink to meet your needs, and only for pay what you need when
you need it. This architecture appeals to many IT managers as it reduces
the initial startup costs, maintenance costs, and overhead required to
run systems. Got slashdotted? Not a problem. Your cloud presence will
seamlessly expand to push your business to the next level. However, as
with all new technology, there are inherent risks. We will discuss the
security risks with application code, architecture, the runtime
environment, and the development environment.

Presenter: **Jon Rose**

Jon Rose is a researcher and pentester within Trustwave's SpiderLabs
group. Jon has close to a decade of experience performing network and
application security assessments, including network penetration testing,
blackbox application testing, and code reviews across a wide range of
programming languages and technologies. Jon has also led IT policy,
standards, and guideline projects, as well as providing IT security
remediation support for commercial and government clients. His security
expertise also includes creating enterprise security programs, providing
guidance in an enterprise security architect role, and building security
into organizations existing software development lifecycle.

Jon also authored the Flex enumeration tool
[deblaze](http://deblaze-tool.appspot.com/) which he recently presented
at Defcon 17. Also check out Jon's
[presentation](http://codesearch0day.appspot.com/) on using Google
CodeSearch to find vulnerabilities.

### Agenda

  - 6pm: Pizza & pop @ [Raytheon Polar
    Services](http://maps.google.com/maps?f=q&hl=en&q=7400%20S%20Tucson%20Way%2C%20Englewood%2C%20CO),
    courtesy of [FishNet Security](http://www.fishnetsecurity.com/)
  - 6:30pm: Introduction and Chapter business
  - 6:45pm --\> 8pm: Presentation

[Back to OWASP Denver](https://www.owasp.org/index.php/Denver)