## The presentation

![Owasp_logo_normal.jpg](Owasp_logo_normal.jpg
"Owasp_logo_normal.jpg")Universities are key to making application
security visible and the need to educate software developers about
application security as an aspect of proper software development has
never been more important. In this presentation I will share how OWASP
resources can be used by universities to develop, test and deploy secure
web applications. I will discuss challenges that Universities currently
face integrating a pplication security best practices, describe how
OWASP tools and resources are currently used at New York University to
test for most common web application flaws. I will introduce projects
such as the OWASP Enterprise Security API which can be used to mitigate
most common flaws in web applications and share initiatives the OWASP
Global Education Committee is currently working on. If you are
interested in securing web applications, and supporting the OWASP Global
Education Committee efforts you don't want to miss this\!

## The speakers

Kuai could not make it and will be replaced by Sebastien Deleersnyder
and Fabio Cerullo.

**Sebastien Deleersnyder**, Lead Application Security, Telindus -
Belgacom ICT Sebastien started the successful Belgian OWASP Chapter and
performed several public presentations on web application and web
services security. Sebastien specialises in (web) application security,
combining his software development and information security experience.
He is currently OWASP Foundation board member and responsible for the
Telindus application security offering.

**Fabio E Cerullo** is currently working as an IT Security Specialist of
AIB Bank in Dublin, Ireland. He has obtained the Certified Information
Systems Security Professional (CISSP) certification in December 2006
which he holds in good standing. Prior to joining AIB, he worked as a
Security Engineer at Symantec Security Response European Headquarters.
Security Response provides customers with world-class analysis and
protection from viruses, blended threats, security risks and
vulnerabilities. While at Symantec, he also collaborated developing
traning materials and workshops for parents and teachers around Internet
Safety. Before moving to Ireland, he worked in different software
development and training activities with an emphasis in secure software
development back in his native Argentina. He holds a Msc in Information
Technology from the Catholic University of Buenos Aires, Argentina.

**Kuai Hinojosa** has been developing and securing web applications for
about 12 years. He previously worked in the banking industry as a
database security administrator for the 5th largest bank in the U.S.
where he worked in a small team developing applications that protected
company's assets. He now works for New York University as a Web
Applications Specialist where he continues to use web application
development and application security experience to protect university
resources. In his spare time Kuai volunteers his time preaching the
application security gospel and leading the Minneapolis OWASP chapter.
Kuai is a member of the OWASP (Open Web Application Security Project)
Global Education Committee.

[Category:OWASP_AppSec_DC_09](Category:OWASP_AppSec_DC_09 "wikilink")
[Category:OWASP_Conference_Presentations](Category:OWASP_Conference_Presentations "wikilink")