## The presentation

![Owasp_logo_normal.jpg](Owasp_logo_normal.jpg
"Owasp_logo_normal.jpg")Leader of GE Corporate cross-business,
company-wide Application Security Program, Darren Challey, will share
how, with the help of Softtek, GE has established a holistic application
security program that seeks to detect, correct and prevent security
defects throughout the application lifecycle. The program's "Center of
Excellence", focused on finding defects early and fixing the root cause,
has assessed several thousand applications across different GE business
units, observing significant improvements in application security over
the past years.

## The speaker

Darren Challey currently holds the position of GE Application Security
Leader. He leads and maintains a cross-business, company-wide "AppSec
Working Group"¬ù and is in charge of establishing policies, procedures
and best practices, providing guidance, services and tools. Prior to his
current role, Darren has occupied several positions at different GE
businesses, including: IT Controller at GE Corporate; IT Sarbanes-Oxley
Leader, Six Sigma Black Belt and Web Master & Program Manager at GE
Commercial Finance; and Electrical, Mechanical & Nuclear Engineer at GE
Energy. After earning his BS degree in Mechanical Engineering from Union
College, Darren received a Masters in Engineering, Computer Systems at
Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute. Mr. Challey is a Certified Information
Systems Auditor (CISA) as well as a Certified Information Systems
Security Professional (CISSP).

[Category:OWASP_AppSec_DC_09](Category:OWASP_AppSec_DC_09 "wikilink")
[Category:OWASP_Conference_Presentations](Category:OWASP_Conference_Presentations "wikilink")