**Developing an Effective IT Risk Assessment Arsenal**

An agile approach to assessing IT risk is essential for any modern
organisation. The range of IT assets to be protected is so great and the
threats are so numerous that a rigid, monolithic approach will lose
credibility when it is clearly not adding value. Yet a purely ad hoc
approach is not ideal either; a structured, standards based, repeatable,
auditable process is required in these times of increased focus on
corporate accountability and responsibility.

This presentation will outline how to evaluate your IT Risk Assessment
toolkit and determine if there are any gaps. Is all IT Change receiving
the level of scrutiny it merits or are some risky propositions gliding
in ‘under–the–radar’? If so we will look at how best to build a case for
adopting something new in the current cost conscious climate.

We will identify potential stakeholders in the organisation and discuss
some common requirements. The pain of change is well understood;
something new should have minimal impact on existing way of doing things
and integrate well with established reporting systems. We will also
investigate the relevant standards and regulations in this area; it is
well documented what open standards bring to systems and software
development, but what benefits can they bring to a process like IT Risk
Assessment? Above all it must be easy to demonstrate value and increased
assurance in terms the stakeholders will understand.

Off-the-shelf methods such as STRIDE / DREAD, SARA and SPRINT may suit
your needs. The alternative is to try to make an informal approach work
or even develop your own methodology from scratch. We will discuss the
relative merits of these and the principles that underpin them all. To
illustrate we will share some of our own experiences and look at opinion
from respected IT Security professionals in other organisations about
what works for them.