## The presentation

![lars_ewe.jpg](lars_ewe.jpg "lars_ewe.jpg")AJAX has rapidly emerged as
a prominent enabling technology in the movement to improve the Web as a
software platform for business and consumer applications. Using AJAX
development techniques provides software developers with a wide-open
platform for creating innovative new Web (2.0) applications. The result
is a more readily responsive Web environment which minimizes the
"start-stop-start-stop"¬ù nature of Web pages, thus increasing the speed
and user-interactivity of Web-enabled services. However, the open,
malleable nature of Web 2.0 also has an often overlooked impact on
application security that is not necessarily initially visible to
application developers, establishing a relatively easy target for
malicious behavior to compromise applications and overall network
security. This session will address the development issues of AJAX
applications from a security perspective, looking at how today's common
web threats such as SQL injections, Cross Site Scripting, and others are
often magnified in an AJAX environment, and it will also explore new
threads, such as JavaScript Hijacking. Last but not least it also
provides Best Practices for AJAX application developers that are
designed to help manage the security complexities inherent to AJAX
development.

## The speaker

Chief Technology Officer and VP of Engineering for Cenzic Lars Ewe is a
technology executive with broad background in (web) application
development and security, middleware infrastructure, software
development and application/system manageability technologies.
Throughout his career Lars has held key positions in engineering and
product management in a variety of different markets. Prior to Cenzic,
Lars was software development director at Advanced Micro Devices, Inc.,
responsible for AMD's overall systems manageability and related security
strategy and all related engineering efforts.

[Category:OWASP_AppSec_DC_09](Category:OWASP_AppSec_DC_09 "wikilink")
[Category:OWASP_Conference_Presentations](Category:OWASP_Conference_Presentations "wikilink")