![Image:OWASP_Donations_Banner.jpg](OWASP_Donations_Banner.jpg
"Image:OWASP_Donations_Banner.jpg")

__NOTOC__

### [View this page in Spanish](https://www.owasp.org/index.php/Donaciones)



\===Supporting & Sponsoring a Local Chapter or Project===

Please visit our **Other Ways To Support OWASP**
[page](https://www.owasp.org/index.php/Membership#tab=Other_ways_to_Support_OWASP)
to process your contribution.

### Donate to the Global AppSec Sponsorship Fund

<div>

This fund will be used to support underrepresented groups in security by
sponsoring full conference passes to Global AppSec conferences

</div>

<div style="width: auto;">

{{\#widget:PayPal Donation |target=_blank
|budget=GlobalAppSecSponsorshipFund }}

</div>

### Donate with Credit Card

[`Donate``   ``with``   ``a``   ``Credit``   ``Card``   ``through``
 ``RegOnline`](https://www.regonline.com/Register/Checkin.aspx?EventID=1044369)

### Donate using Paypal

Use the button below to donate with PayPal:

{{\#widget:PayPal Donation |target=_blank |budget=Other (Website
Donation) }}

Or:

`The OWASP PayPal account is paypal@owasp.org.  Please indicate that the funds are for a Contribution to OWASP.`

### Donate via Check

You can also donate by sending a check or money order payable to "The
OWASP Foundation" directly to the address below. Please indicate
"Donation" on your payment method.

**`The``   ``OWASP``   ``Foundation`**
`401 Edgewater Place, Suite 600`
`Wakefield, MA 01880  U.S.A.`

Please include the name under which you wish the donation to be
credited, either your own or the third-party if it is a gift on behalf
of someone else, and an e-mail address to which we can acknowledge
receipt. This information will not be used for any other purpose. We
will send a physical receipt by normal mail for any donations of US$100
or more, provided you include a return address.

## Third Party Sites Authorized to Accept OWASP Donations

  - [Amazon Smile](http://smile.amazon.com/ch/20-0963503)

<!-- end list -->

  - [Your
    Cause](https://www.yourcause.com/charities.aspx?CharityID=263427)

## Company Matching Programs

Tax ID and other information can be found here: [Financial
Transparency](https://www.owasp.org/index.php/About_OWASP/Financial_Transparency)

TBA


## Frequently Asked Questions about Contributing to The OWASP Foundation

**Why should I donate?**

As a volunteer-based organization, the OWASP Foundation stands in need
of dedicated volunteers who can work on software, documentation, or
administrative issues within each of the OWASP projects as well as other
Foundation initiatives. OWASP provides the infrastructure for the
community - the mailing lists, code repositories, bug tracking systems,
etc. If you use our platform, please consider donating so that we can
continue to spread our mission throughout the world.

**Is there a cost to participate?**

Absolutely not\! The OWASP Foundation is committed to providing free
access to all interested participants. All of our code is distributed
under the OSI-approved licenses. The project mailing lists are all open
to the public and participation is encouraged. So, there is no cost
required to contribute to the projects. However, there is usually a
substantial time commitment that is required in order to contribute to a
project.

**Create a new project**

The OWASP Foundation is also looking for new or existing documentation
or software projects related to application security that are in need of
a home. If you are in a position to contribute documentation that could
help other organizations, or software you have developed, we may be able
to provide a home for it. Understand that this would mean assigning the
OWASP Foundation rights to modify and distribute your work and offer it
under a FLOSS license. See the Contributor Licensing Agreement for more
details. Please contact support@owasp.org for more details about
starting new projects in the OWASP.

**If I donate financially, where would my donations go?**

If you'd like to contribute financially to the foundation, we would
greatly appreciate it. Currently, less than 1% of our annual revenue
comes from donations and in order to build a more sustainable business
model, ensuring the ongoing success of the Foundation we would like to
increase the number of donors and donations.

As the chart below shows, in 2013 nearly 60% of our expenses were
related to conferences and events (correlating to the bulk of our
revenue as well). Our conferences are relatively self sustaining though,
so donations go to support the rest of the operations (the staff) and
programs of the Foundation including project management, mission
outreach, and local chapter support. I you would like to earmark, your
donation to a particular program or area of the Foundation's operations,
please let us know and we will do our best to honor that intent.
Otherwise, we will put your donation toward the area where it is needed
most at the time of your donation. If you wish to provide equipment for
use by the Foundation, please contact us before attempting to send it
"here" directly.

![2013_OWASP_Revenue.png](2013_OWASP_Revenue.png
"2013_OWASP_Revenue.png")
![2013_OWASP_Expenses.png](2013_OWASP_Expenses.png
"2013_OWASP_Expenses.png")

**The OWASP Foundation is a non-profit organization**

The OWASP Foundation is a private operating foundation that is
registered as a non-profit, charitable organization under Section
501(c)(3) of the U.S. Internal Revenue Code. This means that, for
individuals within the U.S., donations to the OWASP should be
tax-deductible. We are not accountants, so this cannot be trusted as
financial advice of any kind, but hopefully this description will be
useful to those who advise you in these matters.

**I'd like to talk to someone about supporting the OWASP\!**

If you would like more information about supporting the OWASP, please
[contact
us](https://owasporg.atlassian.net/servicedesk/customer/portal/7/group/18/create/72)
for more information. All information will be kept in strictest
confidence.

[About_OWASP](About_OWASP "wikilink")