![468x60-banner-2010.gif](468x60-banner-2010.gif
"468x60-banner-2010.gif")

[Registration](https://guest.cvent.com/EVENTS/Register/IdentityConfirmation.aspx?e=d52c6f5f-d568-4e16-b8e0-b5e2bf87ab3a)
|
[Hotel](https://resweb.passkey.com/Resweb.do?mode=welcome_gi_new&groupID=2766908)
| [Walter E. Washington Convention
Center](http://www.dcconvention.com/)
\== The presentation ==

![Neil_Daswani.jpg](Neil_Daswani.jpg "Neil_Daswani.jpg")Which browser
do you claim? What color is your screen-saver? It is a world wide hood
out there, don’t let yourself become the next victim of a drive by… a
drive by download.

Email attachments have become synonymous with computer viruses and
consumers have become accustom to questioning the legitimacy of email
touting male enhancement drugs and lottery winnings. This means hackers
are having to come up with new ways to distribute malware. Today, just
by loading an infected webpage of from a legitimate website, a virus can
be downloaded without any other interaction and will often go
undetected. Once the virus is on a PC, hackers can access the computer
remotely and steal sensitive information like banking passwords, send
out spam or install more malicious executables.

According to recent research….

  - Every 1.3 seconds a new web page is getting infected
  - As of Q3 2009, every month almost 2,000,000 web pages across more
    than 210,000 websites are infected with Malware. This is almost
    double the number of web pages reported for Q4 2008

• 77% of Web sites with malicious code are legitimate sites that have
been compromised

  - The number of malicious sites has grown 671% from 2008-2009
  - 57% of data-stealing attacks are conducted over the Web

Examples of major breaches include the Gumblar attack (Apr '09) with
infected over 80,000 web servers in just a few weeks, and the Network
Solutions attack (Apr '10) in which thousands of WordPress blogs were
infected on a single hosting provider.

In this talk, we describe in technical detail the "anatomy of a modern
web-based malware attack." Web-based malware attacks have evolved
significantly over the past 4 years. We present the state-of-the-art in
web-based malware attacks and describe how the techniques used have
evolved over time.

Back in 2007, for instance, a typical drive-by attack would be
characterized by single injections of malicious JavaScript or IFRAMES
into a legitimate site, and dozens of processes would be dropped/started
on infected clients. Such injections would be delivered mainly through
web application layer attacks such as SQL injections and stored XSS
attacks.

Today, attackers use many additional mechanisms to inject malicious
code, and will conduct multiple injections into a single web page (each
of which are innocuous), such that when combined and run together, only
then will a drive-by-download occur. Such new, multi-DOM node injections
foil first generation web-based malware scanners. In addition, attackers
now only start an average of 2 to 3 processes instead of dozens, and
have started increasing reliance on social engineering (such as fake
anti-virus windows) to attempt to foil automated detection technologies.

Finally, there has been an uptick in malvertising and spear-phishing as
methods of propagating drive-by-downloads, as was used in China-based
attacks against Google and other Fortune 500 companies earlier this
year. We provide concrete examples of each of these novel attacks and
provide example mal-code from the wild illustrating the anatomy of
modern web-based malware attacks.

## Neil Daswani

Neil Daswani is a co-founder & CTO of Dasient, Inc., a security company
backed by some of the most influential investors in Silicon Valley and
New York. In the past, Neil has served in a variety of research,
development, teaching, and managerial roles at Google, Stanford
University, DoCoMo USA Labs, Yodlee, and Bellcore (now Telcordia
Technologies). While at Stanford, Neil co-founded the Stanford Center
Professional Development (SCPD) Security Certification Program
(http://proed.stanford.edu/?security). He has published extensively,
frequently gives talks at industry and academic conferences, and has
been granted several U.S. patents. He received a Ph.D. and a master's in
computer science from Stanford University, and earned a bachelor's in
computer science with honors with distinction from Columbia University.
Neil is also the lead author of "Foundations of Security: What Every
Programmer Needs To Know" (published by Apress; ISBN 1590597842;
<http://tinyurl.com/33xs6g>. More information about Neil is available at
<http://www.neildaswani.com>

[Category:AppSec_DC_2010_Presentations](Category:AppSec_DC_2010_Presentations "wikilink")
[Category:OWASP_Conference_Presentations](Category:OWASP_Conference_Presentations "wikilink")