This module is a sample module as part of the Education Project.

Use it as sample or template for your own modules. Example modules are
"[Education Module What Is SQL
Injection](Education_Module_What_Is_SQL_Injection "wikilink")" and
"[Education Module What is
SQL](Education_Module_What_is_SQL "wikilink")".

Before you start a new module, please assure there is not already a
module that covers you topic. Maybe you can improve the existing module
instead.

Create your own module as Education_Module_*Module_Name* with *Module
Name* your new module name. Then use the template below as guideline to
add details to the module. Off course you should create or reference a
presentation.

Make sure that at modules are **modular**, i.e. they cover one topic in
detail. It should be possible to combine modules easily into tracks or
complete presentations.

# Module Description

*Add module description details here. If this module can be combined
with other modules, do refer them here*

# Target audience

*Add target audience here: e.g. Novice, Intermediate, Expert, AppSec
Professional, Developer, Manager, ...*

# Presentation

*Add pointer to the presentation here. Use the Image:Name format, this
way you reference the jump page with the file history and and links. Use
the OWASP Education Project [Template
powerpoint](:Image:Education_Project_Template.zip "wikilink") and read
the [presentation
guidelines](:Category:OWASP_Presentations#OWASP_Education_Presentation_Guidelines "wikilink").*

# Resources

*The use of categories is highly recommended to dynamically link the
modules to the related OWASP pages on the wiki. You can also (internal)
links here as well.*

## OWASP pointers

*Add OWASP internal links here (if not part of a category)*

## External pointers

*Add external pointers here that are relevant to the module and that are
not yet referenced in the related OWASP material*

*At the bottom of the page add the relevant categories to link this
module to other OWASP pages. Do not forget to add pointers to this
module where relevant.*

[Category:OWASP Education
Modules](Category:OWASP_Education_Modules "wikilink")