## Track Overview

Application security is an essential component of any successful
project; this includes web applications, open source PHP applications,
web services and proprietary business web sites.

Web application security education and awareness is needed throughout
the entire development and deployment organization. Each area and level
of development or deployment organizations have specific needs and
requirements regarding web application security education. A manager
needs other information than a security professional or developer.
Novices to the profession require other training than people with
several years of experience.

The OWASP Education project aims to provide in building blocks of web
application security information. These modules can be combined together
in education tracks targeting different audiences.

This Education Track provides in a 4 hour session covering what
developers should know on web application security. It starts with an
explanation of web application security and why it is important. Then
the OWASP Top 10 is used to explain the nastiest vulnerabilities and how
these can be prevented or re mediated. A secure coding initiative must
deal with all stages of a programâ€™s life cycle. Secure web applications
are only possible when a secure SDLC is used. The SDLC is explained from
the standpoint of people, processes and tools. Particularly for
developers good secure development practices are covered in a separate
topic. Finally the track finishes with an exhaustive list of web
application security resources for web application developers.

## Track Audience

The track audience is web application developers who are unaware there
are security issues with contemporary web applications. No prior
knowledge of web application security is assumed nor necessary. This
track is independent of the coding language or web frameworks used; like
PHP, JSF, Java EE or .NET.

We must realize that web application developers are only one link -
albeit an important one - of the chain that represents the security of a
web application. This track aims to make that link as secure as
possible, given the constraint of 4 hours.

Another important aspect is that web application security should be
tailored to the risk profile of an organization and the specific
development environment of that organization.

## Table of Contents

The challenge is to cover web application security in 4 hours to a web
application developer. This is presented in such a way that the
developers will be able to recognize and correct web application
vulnerabilities in their projects.

  - [Why WebAppSec
    matters](Education_Module_Why_WebAppSec_Matters "wikilink") (20 min)
    ([direct
    link](http://www.owasp.org/images/5/58/Education_Module_Why_WebAppSec_Matters.ppt))

<!-- end list -->

  -
    This part is the introduction of the track. It identifies the
    current security problems with web applications. During the
    introduction a definition of web application security is given.
    Trends that are influencing the current state of web application
    insecurity are also explained.
      - What goes wrong
      - WebAppSec Defined
      - Current trends

<!-- end list -->

  - [OWASP Top 10 Introduction &
    Remedies](Education_Module_OWASP_Top_10_Introduction_and_Remedies "wikilink")
    (90 min) ([direct
    link](http://www.owasp.org/images/b/b8/Education_Module_OWASP_Top_10_Introduction_and_Remedies.ppt))

<!-- end list -->

  -
    The primary aim of the OWASP Top 10 is to educate developers,
    designers, architects and organizations about the consequences of
    the most common web application security vulnerabilities. The Top 10
    provides basic methods to protect against these vulnerabilities.
      - [Cross Site Scripting
        (XSS)](Education_Module_Cross_Site_Scripting_\(XSS\) "wikilink")
      - Injection Flaws
      - Malicious File Execution
      - Insecure Direct Object Reference
      - Cross Site Request Forgery (CSRF)
      - Information Leakage and Improper Error Handling
      - Broken Authentication and Session Management
      - Insecure Cryptographic Storage
      - Insecure Communications
      - Failure to Restrict URL Access

<!-- end list -->

  - [Embed within SDLC](Education_Module_Embed_within_SDLC "wikilink")
    (People, Processes & Tools) (20 min) ([direct
    link](http://www.owasp.org/images/f/f2/Education_Module_Embed_within_SDLC.ppt))

<!-- end list -->

  -
    There is no silver bullet when it comes to securing web
    applications. This problem has to be addressed from different
    angles, covering the involved actors, processes: development as well
    as deployment and Technologies.
      - People Awareness and Education
      - Development WebAppSec Controls
      - Deployment WebAppSec Controls
      - WebAppSec Tools

<!-- end list -->

  - [Good Secure Development
    Practices](Education_Module_Good_Secure_Development_Practices "wikilink")
    (70 min) ([direct
    link](http://www.owasp.org/images/5/57/Education_Module_Good_Secure_Development_Practices.ppt))

<!-- end list -->

  -
    Next to the Top 10 remedies this module provides some good secure
    development practices from the OWASP Guide, covering e.g.
      - Validating User Input
      - Authentication
      - Authorization
      - Session Management
      - Using Interpreters
      - Crypto
      - Catching Errors
      - File System
      - Configuration
      - Web 2.0

<!-- end list -->

  - [Testing for
    Vulnerabilities](Education_Module_Testing_for_Vulnerabilities "wikilink")
    (20 min) ([direct
    link](http://www.owasp.org/images/4/49/Education_Module_Testing_for_Vulnerabilities.ppt))

<!-- end list -->

  -
    One important aspect is to test for application vulnerabilities.
    During this short module an introduction is provided together with
    some WebGoat test cases.
      - Testing for application vulnerabilities
      - The OWASP Testing Guide
      - WebGoat demonstrated

<!-- end list -->

  - [Good WebAppSec
    Resources](Education_Module_Good_WebAppSec_Resources "wikilink")
    (not limited to OWASP) (10 min) ([direct
    link](http://www.owasp.org/images/f/fe/Education_Module_Good_WebAppSec_Resources.ppt))

<!-- end list -->

  -
    This 4 hour education track in only the beginning of your journey.
    Web application security is a moving target. New vulnerabilities and
    threats are discovered regularly. Web application security controls
    are becoming mature. The following resources should provide you with
    enough pointers to serve both as reference and for further research.
      - Hard Copy
      - Web Sites
      - Mailing lists
      - Blogs

<!-- end list -->

  - Roundup (10 min)

[Category:OWASP Education
Project](Category:OWASP_Education_Project "wikilink")
[Category:OWASP_Education_Project_New](Category:OWASP_Education_Project_New "wikilink")