## Track Overview

Application security is an essential component of any successful
project; this includes web applications, open source PHP applications,
web services and proprietary business web sites.

Web application security education and awareness is needed throughout
the entire development and deployment organization. Each area and level
of development or deployment organizations have specific needs and
requirements regarding web application security education. A manager
needs other information than a security professional or developer.
Novices to the profession require other training than people with
several years of experience.

The OWASP Education project aims to provide in building blocks of web
application security information. These modules can be combined together
in education tracks targeting different audiences.

This Education Track provides in a 4 hour session covering what every
actor involved in developing or deploying a web application should know
on web application security. It starts with an explanation of web
application security and why it is important. Then the OWASP Top 10 is
used to explain the nastiest vulnerabilities and how these can be
prevented or re-mediated. A secure coding initiative must deal with all
stages of a programâ€™s life cycle. Secure web applications are only
possible when a secure SDLC is used. The SDLC is explained from the
standpoint of people, processes and tools. Several web application
security controls are explained that should be part of the SDLC. Finally
the track finishes with an exhaustive list of web application security
resources for web application developers.

## Track Audience

The track audience is are all people that become involved in developing
or administering a web application and who are new to web application
security. No prior knowledge of web application security is assumed nor
necessary. This track is independent of the coding language or web
frameworks used; like PHP, JSF, Java EE or .NET.

We must realize that people are the most important factor when web
applications are secured. It is not enough to have good tools to secure
web applications and to have excellent secure development and
administration processes. People are often the weakest link within web
application security. This track aims to make that link as secure as
possible, given the constraint of 4 hours.

Another important aspect is that web application security should be
tailored to the risk profile of an organization.

## Table of Contents

The challenge is to cover web application security in 4 hours to people
who are new to the subject. The track is presented in such a way that
people who are involved in developing or deploying a web application
will know what their responsibilities are how to manage web application
security controls within their area of influence.

  - [Why WebAppSec
    matters](Education_Module_Why_WebAppSec_Matters "wikilink") (20 min)
    ([direct
    link](http://www.owasp.org/images/5/58/Education_Module_Why_WebAppSec_Matters.ppt))

<!-- end list -->

  -
    This part is the introduction of the track. It identifies the
    current security problems with web applications. During the
    introduction a definition of web application security is given.
    Trends that are influencing the current state of web application
    insecurity are also explained.
      - What goes wrong
      - WebAppSec Defined
      - Current trends

<!-- end list -->

  - [OWASP Top 10 Introduction &
    Remedies](Education_Module_OWASP_Top_10_Introduction_and_Remedies "wikilink")
    (100 min) ([direct
    link](http://www.owasp.org/images/b/b8/Education_Module_OWASP_Top_10_Introduction_and_Remedies.ppt))

<!-- end list -->

  -
    The primary aim of the OWASP Top 10 is to educate developers,
    designers, architects and organizations about the consequences of
    the most common web application security vulnerabilities. The Top 10
    provides basic methods to protect against these vulnerabilities.
      - [Cross Site Scripting
        (XSS)](Education_Module_Cross_Site_Scripting_\(XSS\) "wikilink")
      - Injection Flaws
      - Malicious File Execution
      - Insecure Direct Object Reference
      - Cross Site Request Forgery (CSRF)
      - Information Leakage and Improper Error Handling
      - Broken Authentication and Session Management
      - Insecure Cryptographic Storage
      - Insecure Communications
      - Failure to Restrict URL Access

<!-- end list -->

  - [Embed within SDLC](Education_Module_Embed_within_SDLC "wikilink")
    (People, Processes & Tools) (100 min) ([direct
    link](http://www.owasp.org/images/f/f2/Education_Module_Embed_within_SDLC.ppt))

<!-- end list -->

  -
    There is no silver bullet when it comes to securing web
    applications. This problem has to be addressed from different
    angles, covering the involved actors, processes: development as well
    as deployment and Technologies.
      - People Awareness and Education
      - Web Application Security Training
      - Security Requirements and Abuse Cases
      - Threat Modelling
      - Secure Design Guidelines
      - Secure Coding Guidelines and Security Code Review
      - Testing for web application security
      - Secure administration and Security within Change Management
      - Deployment WebAppSec Controls
      - WebAppSec Tools
      - Starting and improving an SDLC
      - Web Application Security Roles and Responsibilities

<!-- end list -->

  - [Good WebAppSec
    Resources](Education_Module_Good_WebAppSec_Resources "wikilink")
    (not limited to OWASP) (10 min) ([direct
    link](http://www.owasp.org/images/f/fe/Education_Module_Good_WebAppSec_Resources.ppt))

<!-- end list -->

  -
    This 4 hour education track in only the beginning of your journey.
    Web application security is a moving target. New vulnerabilities and
    threats are discovered regularly. Web application security controls
    are becoming mature. The following resources should provide you with
    enough pointers to serve both as reference and for further research.
      - Hard Copy
      - Web Sites
      - Mailing lists
      - Blogs

<!-- end list -->

  - Roundup (10 min)

[Category:OWASP Education
Project](Category:OWASP_Education_Project "wikilink")
[Category:OWASP_Education_Project_New](Category:OWASP_Education_Project_New "wikilink")