![468x60-banner-2010.gif](468x60-banner-2010.gif
"468x60-banner-2010.gif")

[Registration](https://guest.cvent.com/EVENTS/Register/IdentityConfirmation.aspx?e=d52c6f5f-d568-4e16-b8e0-b5e2bf87ab3a)
|
[Hotel](https://resweb.passkey.com/Resweb.do?mode=welcome_gi_new&groupID=2766908)
| [Walter E. Washington Convention
Center](http://www.dcconvention.com/)
\== The presentation ==

![Owasp_logo_normal.jpg](Owasp_logo_normal.jpg
"Owasp_logo_normal.jpg")All organizations—government and commercial—have
a growing awareness of the need for an ongoing software assurance
initiative. A successful initiative requires that organizations perform
appropriate activities at each step in the software lifecycle. Doing so
will help ensure organizations can reliably meet software assurance
goals, including those related to reliability, resilience, security, and
compliance. In order to help organizations begin to tackle assurance
goals, Edmund Wotring III (Information Security Solutions, LLC) and
Sammy Migues (Cigital, Inc) created the Software Assurance (SwA) Supply
Chain Risk Management (SCRM) Checklist. The SwA SCRM Checklist
incorporates mappings of several freely available models as a framework
to help organizations establish a baseline of their practices. The SwA
SCRM Checklist can facilitate better communication and understanding of
the risks that may be introduced during software development and
acquisitions, and also facilitate selection of a maturity model best
suited to an organization’s needs.

## Edmund Wotring

Edmund Wotring III is a Senior Security Engineer with Information
Security Solutions, LLC. He has supported various federal government
clients with security compliance and process improvement initiatives. He
has advised senior leadership on how to ensure compliance processes can
facilitate effective security. He currently supports the Department of
Homeland Security National Cyber Security Division’s Software Assurance
program.

[Category:AppSec_DC_2010_Presentations](Category:AppSec_DC_2010_Presentations "wikilink")
[Category:OWASP_Conference_Presentations](Category:OWASP_Conference_Presentations "wikilink")