#### Statistics

## Objective

This document is the first statistics report which will be repeated
annually, showing tendencies and changes in Enterprise Business
Application Security area.

## Purpose

This document will show a result of statistical research in the business
application security area made by ERPScan Research Group and OWASP-EAS
project. The purpose of this document is to raise awareness about
Enterprise Business Application security by showing the current number
of vulnerabilities found in those applications, how critical those are
and what kind of tendences we see.

## Intro

Business applications like ERP, CRM, SRM and others are one of the major
topics within the field of computer security because these applications
store business data, and any vulnerability in these applications will
cause a significant monetary loss. Nonetheless, people still don’t pay
much attention to enterprise business application area, as we see during
our and our collegues' researches and audits. Business applications are
very large and complex systems that consist of different components such
as Database server, Front-end, Web server, Application server and other
parts. Also, those systems rely on different hardware and software that
can have their own vulnerabilities. The purpose of those surveys is to
increase awareness about business application security.

## Links

Surveys:

[SAP Security In Figures – A Global
Survey 2007-2011](https://www.owasp.org/images/6/6b/SAP_Security_in_figures_-_a_global_survey_2007-2011._OWASP-EAS.pdf)

[SAP Security In Figures – A Global
Survey 2013](http://erpscan.com/wp-content/uploads/2014/02/SAP-Security-in-Figures-A-Global-Survey-2013.pdf)

Links:

[SAP SDN page with latest
vulnerabilities](http://www.sdn.sap.com/irj/sdn/index?rid=/webcontent/uuid/c05604f6-4eb3-2d10-eea7-ceb666083a6a)

[Oracle Secalert CPU page with latest
vulnerabilities](http://www.oracle.com/security/critical-patch-update.html)

## Authors

Alexander Polyakov, Alexey Tyurin, Dmitry Chastukhin



## Contributors