<table>
<thead>
<tr class="header">
<th><p>width="700" align="center"</p></th>
<th><p><br />
</p></th>
<th><p>width="500" align="center"</p></th>
<th><p><br />
</p></th>
</tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>align="right"</p></td>
<td><figure>
<img src="OWASP_Inactive_Banner.jpg" title="OWASP_Inactive_Banner.jpg" alt="OWASP_Inactive_Banner.jpg" width="800" /><figcaption>OWASP_Inactive_Banner.jpg</figcaption>
</figure></td>
<td><p>align="right"</p></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

#### Main

The ESAPI Swingset is a web application which demonstrates the many uses
of the Enterprise Security API ([ESAPI](ESAPI "wikilink")).

## Download/Run

**ESAPI Swingset INTERACTIVE**

The ESAPI Swingset INTERACTIVE is a web application which demonstrates
common security vulnerabilities and asks users to secure the application
against these vulnerabilities using the ESAPI library. The application
is intended for Java Developers. The goal of the application is to teach
developers about the functionality of the ESAPI library and give users a
practical understanding of how it can be used to protect web
applications against common security vulnerabilities.

  - **All ESAPI Swingset INTERACTIVE downloads are hosted on the [Google
    Code
    site](http://code.google.com/p/owasp-esapi-swingset-interactive/).
    You can find the latest downloads for the project
    [here](http://code.google.com/p/owasp-esapi-swingset-interactive/downloads/list).**

## How Can I help with Swingset

The ESAPI Swingset is still in an early beta stage. Many pages within
Swingset are still incomplete, and we could certainly use some help
getting them finished. If you are interested in helping, please see
[this page](Building_ESAPI_Swingset "wikilink") for instructions on how
to download and build the latest SVN version of the Swingset.

If you have any ideas for how the ESAPI Swingset could be better, or if
you would like to submit new code, please contact any of the project
leaders.

## Project Sponsors

The OWASP ESAPI project is sponsored by
[<https://www.owasp.org/images/d/d1/Aspect_logo.gif>](http://www.aspectsecurity.com)

The OWASP ESAPI Swingset Interactive project is sponsored by
[<https://www.owasp.org/images/1/11/Cycubix2_small.png>](http://www.cycubix.com)

#### Project About - Swingset Interactive

__NOTOC__ <headertabs />

[Category:OWASP Download](Category:OWASP_Download "wikilink")
[ESAPI_Swingset_Project](Category:OWASP_Project "wikilink")
[Category:OWASP Tool](Category:OWASP_Tool "wikilink") [Enterprise
Security API](Category:OWASP_Enterprise_Security_API "wikilink")
[Category:OWASP_Alpha_Quality_Tool](Category:OWASP_Alpha_Quality_Tool "wikilink")