Last revision (mm/dd/yy): **//**



## Description

There are many ways to deliver an “out of the box” experience for users.
However, by default, the experience should be secure, and it should be
up to the user to reduce their security – if they are allowed. It is
imperative for the software environment to have default secure settings
which may be opted out of by the user or other options which may be
opted into (commonly known as Opt-in and Opt-out).

For example, by default, password aging and complexity should be
enabled. Users might be allowed to turn these two features off(Opt-out)
to simplify their use of the application and increase their risk.

It is important to understand that by no means does “Secure Defaults”
mean turning off all possible network applications or sockets and
services. And neither do Secure Defaults mean a 100% secure environment.
But, they should ensure the least number of possible loopholes and fewer
drawbacks.

## Operating Systems

Although OpenBSD claims to be the only fully secure by default operating
system, it isn't necessarily the most secure operating system because
the definition of an operating system is varied. An operating system
which cant interact with other systems may not be connected across a
network thereby being more secure than one which is prone to network
vulnerabilities. Windows provides User Account Controls whereas Ubuntu
which is a Linux OS hides the administrative account by default and
gives administrative privileges to the first user for tasks like
managing the disk drives. MAC OS X doesn’t hide this account but gives
limited privileges.

## Examples

### Short example name

  -
    A short example description, small picture, or sample code with
    [links](http://www.site.com)

### Short example name

  -
    A short example description, small picture, or sample code with
    [links](http://www.site.com)

## Related [Vulnerabilities](Vulnerabilities "wikilink")

  - [Vulnerability 1](Vulnerability_1 "wikilink")
  - [Vulnerabiltiy 2](Vulnerabiltiy_2 "wikilink")

## Related [Controls](Controls "wikilink")

  - [Controls 1](Controls_1 "wikilink")
  - [Controls 2](Controls_2 "wikilink")

## References

  - <http://www.link1.com>
  - [Title for the link2](http://www.link2.com)

__NOTOC__

[Category:OWASP ASDR Project](Category:OWASP_ASDR_Project "wikilink")
[Category:Principle](Category:Principle "wikilink")