![468x60-banner-2010.gif](468x60-banner-2010.gif
"468x60-banner-2010.gif")

[Registration](https://guest.cvent.com/EVENTS/Register/IdentityConfirmation.aspx?e=d52c6f5f-d568-4e16-b8e0-b5e2bf87ab3a)
|
[Hotel](https://resweb.passkey.com/Resweb.do?mode=welcome_gi_new&groupID=2766908)
| [Walter E. Washington Convention
Center](http://www.dcconvention.com/)
\== The presentation ==

![Alex_photo.jpg](Alex_photo.jpg "Alex_photo.jpg")As the criminals
adapt, they look for new ways to distribute malware. This talk will
examine new types of malware that spread through online videos, music
files, and images. We begin by analyzing media malware trends, and
discover that many of the attacks are not targeted and that they are
usually reliant on social engineering and blackhat search engine
optimization. Next, we provide a taxonomy of different attack vectors.
We show that music and video files are commonly infected via URLANDEXIT
script injection or DRM licensing abuse, where a user is tricked into
downloading a "fake codec". We analyze a growing trend of fake Youtube
sites, covering the latest news events. These sites are often advertised
through social networking sites, such as Facebook. We demonstrate how
easy it is to set up such sites, via a YTFakeCreator toolkit. We then
discuss how images of Angelina Jolie have been used to exploit JPEG GDI
buffer overflow vulnerability in the past, and how it's still prevalent
nowadays. Finally, we discuss some protection mechanisms, ranging from
OS configuration changes to disable URLANDEXIT commands, to a custom
tool (that will be open-sourced after the talk), which can help easily
detect the malware before downloading the entire video. Our tool uses
some innovative ideas, such as sequential downloads of the media file,
and entropy analysis to detect injected script commands.

## Aleksandr Yampolskiy

"Aleksandr Yampolskiy, Director of Security and Compliance, Gilt Groupe.
Aleksandr Yampolskiy is responsible for all aspects of security at the
Gilt Groupe: application security, protecting the company through
penetration testing and auditing of network infrastructure, establishing
IT security controls, conducting security awareness training, fraud
detection, and overseeing PCI compliance efforts. Prior to this
position, Aleksandr Yampolskiy has worked at Goldman Sachs, Oracle,
Microsoft in various capacities. He has been a lead technologist for
SSO, entitlement, IDM, and identity federation solutions. Aleksandr
Yampolskiy has advised various businesses on best practices for
integrating security into their products, while complying with
internal/external policies and regulations. Aleksandr has been cited in
NY Times, Yale Scientific, and published half a dozen articles in top
security conferences. In 2006, he was awarded the Best Paper Award in
Public Key Cryptography conference for discovering the most efficient
Verifiable Random Function to-date. He has a B.A. in
Mathematics/Computer Science from New York University, and a Ph.D. in
Cryptography from Yale University."

[Category:AppSec_DC_2010_Presentations](Category:AppSec_DC_2010_Presentations "wikilink")
[Category:OWASP_Conference_Presentations](Category:OWASP_Conference_Presentations "wikilink")