Niall has over ten years industry experience and has spent the last two
as an IT Security Architect with Allied Irish Banks. His background is
in developing financial web applications and in so doing he has gained
substantial first-hand experience of designing and implementing online
security.

Niall has most recently contributed to the information security
community by working on ISC2’s new software assurance qualification, the
CSSLP. He is qualified as a CSSLP, a CISSP and a CISA. He graduated from
DCU in 1998 with a Degree in Computer Applications and attained Post
Graduate Diploma from NCI where his dissertation was titled “A Formal
Methodology to Enable Online Businesses to Select a Best Fit Security
Solution”.

-----

Fabio is currently working as an Information Security Specialist at AIB
Bank (Dublin, Ireland). His tasks include performing risk analysis,
assessing the security of web applications developed internally or
purchased from third parties, define policies and standards on secure
coding, as well as providing training on web application security to
developers, auditors, executives and security professionals.

Prior to joining AIB, he worked as a Security Engineer at Symantec
Security Response European Headquarters analyzing malicious code,
blended threats, security risks and vulnerabilities in various
applications. Before moving to Ireland, he worked in the development of
different training programs and activities with emphasis on secure
software development in his native Argentina.

As a member of the OWASP organization, Fabio is part of Global Education
Committee whose mission is to provide training and educational services
to businesses, governments and educational institutions on application
security, he coordinates international conferences around this topic,
and since early 2010 has been appointed chairman of OWASP Chapter in
Ireland. Fabio is a graduate in Computer Engineering from the
Universidad Católica Argentina and has been granted the CISSP by (ISC) 2
back in 2006.