February 8, 2017, 15:00-16:30 PST

Meeting Location: **VIRTUAL**

<https://www3.gotomeeting.com/join/861328838>

[International Toll Free Calling
Information](International_Toll_Free_Calling_Information "wikilink")

**Notice of Recording** Notice to all attendees - board meetings are
recorded and publicly available as of March, 2013 Joining the call
acknowledges your awareness of recording and consent to be recorded and
public dissemination of the recording.

<https://www3.gotomeeting.com/join/861328838>

**[Meeting
Recording](https://drive.google.com/a/owasp.org/file/d/0B0yxedKRQADiSFhrWkJXSXRhOEk/view?usp=sharing)**

**[Meeting
Minutes](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1-JBk8l-O3-y8I6A67dUkArFJKepqOfBkKqgeKjA6w44/edit?usp=sharing)**

### AGENDA

This is the VIRTUAL packet that is provided to everyone at the same time
to review, make comments and be prepared for the meeting. There is no
paper handout for the meeting.

### CALL TO ORDER

  - Quorum is needed of (4) elected board members to begin. Ideally
    votes on motions as example will be conducted of ALL board members
    for the record in the event of a tie the chair's vote decides)

### CHANGES TO THE AGENDA

  - At the start of the meeting the entire agenda will be reviewed.
    Anything not on the agenda will not be heard and will have to wait
    until the next scheduled meeting. Submissions should be available
    (5) working days before the meeting and a alert should be posted to
    the [owasp-board mailing
    list](https://lists.owasp.org/listinfo/owasp-board) for public
    record

### APPROVAL OF MINUTES

\- Approval of prior [prior meeting
mins](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1juGgQM6wxwmJ3m956t1kVE0FweBGQUeRHufdIzww37g/edit?usp=sharing)

### REPORTS

OWASP Foundation daily operations is managed by the [Operations
Director](https://www.owasp.org/index.php/About_OWASP#Employees_and_Contractors)
who provides a [monthly roll-up
report](https://owasp.blogspot.com/2017/02/owasp-operations-update-for-february.html)
in collaboration of all staff members, contractors and efforts being
manged by the [back office
team.](https://www.owasp.org/index.php/About_OWASP#Employees_and_Contractors)
This month's operational report was published on the OWASP blog as the
[OWASP Operations Update for
February 2017](https://owasp.blogspot.com/2017/02/owasp-operations-update-for-february.html)

\<$Committees\> should provide a written/verbal report of progress since
the last meeting

### OLD / UNFINISHED BUSINESS

\<$insert anything that did not get resolved and that is being tracked,
updated or to be discussed and by who\>

  - Officer acknowledgements - Brennan

<!-- end list -->

  - [990
    Filings](https://www.owasp.org/index.php/About_OWASP#Form_990_Documents)
    2014 & 2015 - Brennan

<!-- end list -->

  - \[Josh\] PROPOSAL: An OWASP Foundation Board member is elected to a
    two-year term. A Board member may run again for re-election at any
    point in the future, but may serve no more than two two-year terms
    in any ten year period. Current Board members would be allowed to
    complete their current term. This would encourage new ideas and
    renewed energy on the OWASP Board of Directors and keep elections
    from being a popularity contest where incumbents may be difficult to
    displace.

Current OWASP Foundation Bylaws:

<https://www.owasp.org/images/e/e1/OWASPByLawsOfficial-25Sept2015CLEAN.pdf>

Section 2.02 currently reads:

  -

      -
        Each Board member will serve for a term of 2 years. The term
        will begin effective January 1 following the election period. An
        individual is limited to 4 consecutive 2 year terms effective
        January 1, 2014. The role of the Board Members shall be elected
        by the Board of Directors at the first meeting following the
        election of the Board of Directors. If the election of officers
        shall not be held at such meeting, such election shall be held
        as soon thereafter as conveniently may be. Each officer shall
        hold that role until the next election has been completed.

MOTION: Revise Section 2.02 to read:

  -

      -
        Each Board member will serve for a term of 2 years. The term
        will begin effective January 1 following the election period. A
        Board member may run again for re-election at any point in the
        future, but may serve no more than two two-year terms in any ten
        year period. The role of the Board Members shall be elected by
        the Board of Directors at the first meeting following the
        election of the Board of Directors. If the election of officers
        shall not be held at such meeting, such election shall be held
        as soon thereafter as conveniently may be. Each officer shall
        hold that role until the next election has been completed.

This new rule would take effect with the 2017 election and the directors
elected for the 2018/2019 term.

  - \[Josh\] Scheduled Board Meeting Discussion: I would like to request
    that the meeting scheduled for Wednesday, April 12th be moved to
    either Tuesday, April 11th or Thursday, April 13th at the same time.
    I will be coaching a soccer game at the currently scheduled date and
    time. Also, the timezone for June 7 is listed as CEST. Is that
    intentional? I ask because every other timezone is listed in PST or
    PDT. I shouldn't have an issue if it is, but I at least wanted to
    verify that is the case. Lastly, the September 19th meeting says "in
    Orlando at AppSecEU", but the October 11th meeting also says "at
    AppSecUSA" and is in EST. Which is it? Are the times still correct
    for both?
    <https://www.owasp.org/index.php/Board#The_OWASP_Foundation_Inc>..2C_Global_Board_of_Directors

MOTION \[Johanna\]:

  - Vote for having a Team as ED conformed by Kate, Matt Tesauro and Tom
    Papas
  - Vote to hire VM services to help prepare the Board meetings better
  - Vote/Approve Budget Items for 2017
  - Vote/Approve [new membership
    model](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1zRae5MufvbaIyOd0YL-lOkenzz_3ACZl1zBL11yUxo8/edit)
  - Vote on strategic goals for 2017

#### Strategic Goals 2017

  - Goal Appsec Training: [Appsec
    Training 2017](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1cT3trTdmYNcz7sH4ENHcR9ujE51qRHx-dDrELIpSnKU/edit?ts=589a2d9b)

### NEW BUSINESS

\<$insert anything that is NEW business to be heard by the elected
officials\> Please add your item to the list by editing this wiki page
and adding the subject line or link to the item to be discussed

  - \[Michael\] Proposal for OWASP 2017 Objective - AppSec Trainings -
    [Proposal
    Link](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1cT3trTdmYNcz7sH4ENHcR9ujE51qRHx-dDrELIpSnKU/edit#)
  - \[Konda\] Proposed Updated 2017 Meeting Schedule - [Proposed
    Schedule](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1kol0PTc0P2hu6xkmkG7umPnNjLGw06Wou56Ee_575rg/edit#gid=0)

### COMMENTS, ANNOUNCEMENTS, AND OTHER BUSINESS

This is for open discussion that does NOT require a vote however is
educational and informative from anyone who has something to add for the
good of the Foundation.

### ADJOURNMENT

We will determine the next date/time of the offical meeting if different
from the posted agenda. Any changes to the offical date/time/location
will also be posted to the [OWASP-BOARD
LIST](https://lists.owasp.org/listinfo/owasp-board)

[NEXT MEETING](https://www.owasp.org/index.php/Board)