## Dial In Info

### Notice of Recording

  - Notice to all attendees - board meetings are recorded and publicly
    available as of March, 2013
  - Joining the call acknowledges your awareness of recording and
    consent to be recorded and public dissemination of the recording.
  - [Recording of 13 January 2016 OWASP Board
    Meeting](https://www.dropbox.com/s/9v88xcox5rb6pkc/2016-01-13%2016.09%20OWASP%20Board%20Meeting.wmv?dl=0)
  - [Recording of 17 February 2016 OWASP Board
    Meeting](https://www.dropbox.com/s/rksh4zr5sf6z2un/2016-02-17%2015.02%20OWASP%20Board%20Meeting.wmv?dl=0)

### Time

  - February 17, 2016, 15:00-16:30 PST - [TimeZone
    Converter](http://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/meetingdetails.html?year=2016&month=02&day=17&hour=23&min=0&sec=0&p1=224&p2=24&p3=263&p4=78&p5=37&p6=102&p7=152)

### Location

**Teleconference Information:**

<https://www3.gotomeeting.com/join/861328838>

[International Toll Free Calling
Information](International_Toll_Free_Calling_Information "wikilink")

### Attendance Tracker

**[Board Meeting Attendance
Tracker](https://docs.google.com/a/owasp.org/spreadsheet/ccc?key=0ApZ9zE0hx0LNdG5uRzNYZE8ycDFabnBWNkU4SFpwREE)**

### Meeting Minutes

  - [Jan.2016 Meeting Minutes for
    Approval](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1NgJB0B98pP2-THUMks0fNf_yZmGsDKs_uCJMsAYuZ-Y/edit)
  - [17 February 2016 Board Meeting
    Minutes](https://docs.google.com/a/owasp.org/document/d/1J9BZ2DIgItMpajbAaPGzA1HcbkVQ5SKzfLUFDa06H4s/edit?usp=sharing)

# Reading Material

***It is a requirement as a board member to fully read all material
prior to the start of the meeting***

1\. [Proposal from Johanna on OWASP-Project-Review Updates &
Incentives](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1PvNeEWgoO1w51VhHLwqqSgo0mBh-RvmSFUKMTz4QrYg/edit?pref=2&pli=1#heading=h.lw77ixr6kxi)

  - Should Project Task Force be 'relaunched' as
    Project-Review-Committee with same Committee 2.0 procedures and
    authority?
  - Some questions in the proposal may be resolved at Committee level,
    without needing board motion & approval. (P.Ritchie interpretation)
  - [Summary of Questions & response from Johanna dated
    Feb.10, 2016](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1QPaSEgNOkfOkk8L4X-PDT2WA9ya1E6braN5-JfgEzMQ/edit?usp=sharing)

2\. \>\> READ Staff Status reports below, including Detail Financial
Report for 2015 through December 2015 in Excel format. P\&L, A/R, A/P,
Balance Sheet with cash balances for Foundation & Chapters & Projects

3\.[Help Secure OWASP assets initiative, contributions from
volunteers](https://www.owasp.org/index.php/Help_Secure_Owasp_assests)

  - Which companies or individuals can contribute to help manage Wiki &
    mailing list with maintenance and patching?
  - Status of Bug Bounty management services for projects and other
    OWAPS assists as the WIKI - through Barter Deals with service
    providers

4\. [IT Transformation Discussion
paper](https://drive.google.com/file/d/0B4xgbqJzimL4YUtpM0dubEFudXM/view?usp=sharing)

  - IT Transformation Discussion paper

# Meeting Agenda

## Call to Order /OWASP Mission

Open Meeting - Start Recording, List attendees and Agenda update (only
if last-minute changes are needed) (5 min)

  - Approve minutes from January 13, 2016.

## Actionable Agenda Topics

  - Review, discuss, act on Johanna proposal. See reading material
    above.

## Discussion Topics

  - OWASP Infrastructure Transformation. AJV. [IT Transformation
    Discussion
    paper](https://drive.google.com/file/d/0B4xgbqJzimL4YUtpM0dubEFudXM/view?usp=sharing)

<!-- end list -->

  - Help Secure OWASP assets :
    <https://www.owasp.org/index.php/Help_Secure_Owasp_assests>

## Misc. Topics (10-15 Minutes)

  - Temperature on Training + Leader Summit
  - Second 5K sponsor package as outlined here:
    <https://docs.google.com/document/d/1NG8C27_RuNmwfTnrUE_-gB5IyHlmTYo1lv-CTXo25p8/edit>

## Old Business

All active board proposals are listed
[here](https://drive.google.com/folderview?id=0BxSfMVkfLvslVXdvUFV3NkxucWc&usp=sharing)

  - Matt K: Action / Update on search for OWASP Compliance officer

<!-- end list -->

  - Paul R: Action - Need clarification. Under financial proposal \#3 &
    4. Do 'Projects' require 2 leaders, or just 1 leader and 1 other
    active participant? Various emails recommend the latter. Staff
    recommends 1 leader plus 1 active participant for definition of
    active project.
      - See Oct. 14, 2015 Votes here.
        <https://www.owasp.org/index.php/OWASP_Board_Votes>

<!-- end list -->

  -   - Chapters are being managed with a 2 leader requirement.

## New Business

All active board proposals are listed
[here](https://drive.google.com/folderview?id=0BxSfMVkfLvslVXdvUFV3NkxucWc&usp=sharing)

  - See Johanna new Project Review proposal above.

## Action Item Follow-Up

  - [2016 Action Item Status from Past BoD
    Meetings](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1LtYN2QSCUBSM53_M0HGAISqiGiXbxO9k8LXv2ZoIVgQ/edit?usp=sharing)
      - This is new excel sheet showing AI as either OPEN or Closed with
        status for monthly Board reporting

## Reports

### Chairmain's Report - Matt Konda

  - Identified compliance team. (Fiona, Bil, Richard)
  - ED annual review underway. (Feedback solicited, reviewing materials)
  - Handoff from Tobias.
  - Financials call with Andrew and Virtual
  - Talked to 6 potential sponsors.
  - Participated in Project call.
  - Wrote sponsor letter for AppSecEU
  - Discussion with Kate about Training + Leader Summit and software
    sponsor tier.
  - Weekly one on one call.

Detail here: <https://trello.com/b/YWY4pf8I/global-board>

### Vice Chairmain's Report - Josh Sokol

  - TODO

### Treasurer Report - Andrew van der Stock

I have had a kick off meeting with Paul, Alison, Matt, and Tom Pappas
(our CFO) from Virtual to discuss a financial handover.

This meeting went well, and filled in a number of gaps for me. The main
action items from my point of view are:

  - Establishing an OWASP archive for our financial and other corporate
    records that is accessible by Alison so we don't lose the lot if
    something happened to Alison's residence or computer. This applies
    primarily to our old records, which we need to keep for 7 years, but
    aren't necessarily used daily.
  - Ensuring that our FY15 year is closed out and our annual report is
    ready on time. This seems to be in hand, but I will keep on eye on
    things.
  - Paul is considering moving our accounts to a better financial
    institution as our current one requires us to use yet another
    payment service. This should improve our visibility of bills and
    make reconciliation easier. I support this move, as it should
    improve our transparency and reduce costs.
  - Once we have final reconciliation and the FY15 books are closed, I
    will ask my wife (a CPA) to look over the records to ensure things
    are okay.

Additionally, I asked about a line of credit that I heard was being
established. Apparently there is something happening here. My main
concern is that it shows up on the books so we can make sure we don't
get into trouble by using it for operational expenditure unnecessarily.
I understand the need for it, but we could easily get into trouble if we
are paying bills on credit without a supporting income.

### Secretary Report - Jim Manico

  - TODO

### Updates from Members at Large

  - Michael Coates (Chapters)
      - Focus areas for investment into chapters this year include:
          - Chapter Leader Call by region (work with staff)
          - Chapter speaker rating system
          - Centralized chapter speaker recommendation system

## Reports

  - Executive Director Status Report for 17 Feb 2016 [Exec.Director
    Status Report
    - 17Feb2016](https://docs.google.com/document/d/131tVN6DamrOat1Io4ez3Nn4nVc_1iekeiEoUGhhTpf4/edit?usp=sharing)
      - [Detail 2015 Financial Report through Dec. 2015 in Excel
        Format](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1OdiijD2toRgkhIKupbrFMqAEZSBH_NrTxHxkKe7XDzM/edit?usp=sharing)
        Note: These are PRELIMINARY numbers and will be final once the
        2015 Books are officially 'closed' by Accounting firm approx.
        Mar 1, 2016
  - Membership & Business Liaison Report - Kelly Santalucia [January
    Membership
    Report](https://www.owasp.org/index.php/January_2016_Membership_Report)
      - [Strategic Goal \#2 Report and CodeMash 2016
        update](https://docs.google.com/a/owasp.org/document/d/1GTC7FT1VYGird1gnKXwbziyOAUYDqNkm9HwPHPnXFc4/edit?usp=sharing)
  - Event Manager Report - Laura Grau [February
    Report](https://www.owasp.org/images/5/5b/February2016ConferenceManagerReport.pdf)
  - Operations Report - Kate Hartmann
    [report](https://docs.google.com/a/owasp.org/document/d/1gM66GBHD1y_Q3s9x_mz6hGASRhVM8nXQIwnE1TUYYyU/edit?usp=sharing)
  - Project Coordinator Report - Claudia Casanovas
    [Report](https://docs.google.com/a/owasp.org/presentation/d/1bPsEydCrPZ_Xwm639h2GTjC1V7YCPawCoT-cjVnDEAs/edit?usp=sharing)
  - Community Manager Report -Noreen Whysel
    [Report](https://docs.google.com/a/owasp.org/document/d/1-4fIJfiLa8l02Hf1XBMqRYEiY2z6g4qwln-_ZLQ6GIs/edit?usp=docslist_api)
  - IT Update from Matt T.
      - MediaWiki has been updated 3 times since AppSec USA 2015 (Sept.
        2015)
      - Upgrade to Mailman 3.0 & server delayed due to Website demands
        from CalifAppSec Team 'emergency', AppSec USA & AppSec EU
        website builds.
      - Some dead and inactive email lists cleaned out. Generally low
        priority re: other demands.
      - 10 hours /month is completely too little for demands from
        Community, especially for breakage & repair after Matt sets
        items up for community use. (Matt has details & examples)
      - Net, net Paul now working with staff and Matt T to define how to
        add resource with 'Matt level access' to cover more common
        community support needs, vs. Infrastructure/domain/server admin
        to remain with Matt T.

### Community Initiative Reports

  - TODO

## Announcements

  - TODO

## Adjournment

  - Willing to shift to March 15?
  - Next meeting date/time: [March 16, 2016](March_16,_2016 "wikilink"),
    16:00-17:00 PST - [TimeZone
    Converter](http://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/meetingdetails.html?year=2016&month=03&day=16&hour=23&min=0&sec=0&p1=224&p2=24&p3=263&p4=78&p5=37&p6=102&p7=152)

## Motion to close meeting