![468x60-banner-2010.gif](468x60-banner-2010.gif
"468x60-banner-2010.gif")

[Registration](https://guest.cvent.com/EVENTS/Register/IdentityConfirmation.aspx?e=d52c6f5f-d568-4e16-b8e0-b5e2bf87ab3a)
|
[Hotel](https://resweb.passkey.com/Resweb.do?mode=welcome_gi_new&groupID=2766908)
| [Walter E. Washington Convention
Center](http://www.dcconvention.com/)
\== The Panel ==

  - Jerry Kickenson, SWIFT (moderator)
  - Mahi Dontamsetti, DTCC
  - David Ritenour, Sungard
  - Ajoy Kumar, JPMorgan Chase
  - Joe Bernik, Fifth-Third Bank

## The Panel

### Jerry Kickenson (Moderator)

Jerry Kickenson is currently Principal Engineer at SWIFT (Society for
Worldwide Interbank Financial Telecommunications) for the SWIFTNet
portfolio. Jerry has worked for over twenty years in software
development, including over fifteen years in the financial services
industry, first at Citibank and now at SWIFT. Among other roles, Jerry
oversees web application development and security at SWIFT for SWIFTNet
operational management and Public Key Infrastructure web applications.

### Joe Bernik, Fifth Third Bank

Mr. Bernik is the Chief Information Security Officer for Fifth Third
Bank, responsible for protecting Fifth Third Bank and its clients’
information systems from risks. He is also responsible for defining and
implementing Enterprise-wide information security strategies for the
Bank.

Mr. Bernik has more than 16 years of experience as a risk professional.
He has developed risk management practices, procedures and standards for
several Fortune 100 companies including several global banking
organizations.

Mr. Bernik currently serves as an advisor to the Federal Reserve on
matters of information security and is on the steering committee of the
Financial Services Sharing and Analysis Center (FS-ISAC).

### Mahi Dontamsetti, DTCC

Mahi Dontamsetti is currently Director of Software Security at DTCC
(Depository Trust & Clearing Corporation). DTCC handles over $ 1.8
Quadrillion in US securities, forming the bedrock for the financial
industry. The software security program at DTCC is critical to DTCC’s
business and the financial industry in general. Mr. Dontamsetti’s team
is responsible for all aspects of software security including
application risk, threat modeling, source code scanning, dynamic
vulnerability analysis, education & training.

Mr. Dontamsetti in his previous roles has served as Global Head of
Application Security at Barclays Capital, Chief Technologist at Lockheed
Martin, CIO/Executive VP at various startups. He has authored two books
on wireless communications, contributed chapters to security books and
provided guidance and direction to international security standards
bodies.

His volunteer activities include serving on the board of OWASP NY/NJ
chapter and in the past on the advisory board of University of
Maryland’s Center for Satellite and Hybrid Communications Networks.

### **Thien La, Sungard**

Thien has over a decade of experience in Technology Risk and Application
Security in the financial services industry. In 2001, he helped develop
the first Application Risk program at a large tier one financial
services firm in NYC that included an application risk assessment
framework, business impact analysis, and penetration testing. Since
then, he has led multiple Technology Risk programs at a leading tier one
financial services firm including Application Security Testing (Static
Code Analysis and Manual and Automated Penetration Testing), Metrics and
Reporting (KPI/KRI analysis and development), and Systems Product
Management (including online metrics portal, and issue tracking and risk
catalog systems). He was also the acting lead for International
off-shoring technology risk in Asia and Brazil, and served as the SME
for Firm-wide Technology Systems.

### Ajoy Kumar

Ajoy has extensive experience in designing, implementing, and managing
enterprise Software Security Programs from the ground up. He is a strong
believer in implementing application security by process re-engineering
and implementing the technology controls over the development lifecycle.
He believes application security education is core for the necessary
transformation of the enterprise.

He has an MS in Security Management and EE and a BS in Computer Science.

[Category:AppSec_DC_2010_Presentations](Category:AppSec_DC_2010_Presentations "wikilink")
[Category:OWASP_Conference_Presentations](Category:OWASP_Conference_Presentations "wikilink")