## The presentation

![Owasp_logo_normal.jpg](Owasp_logo_normal.jpg
"Owasp_logo_normal.jpg") Note: To participate, please come with Fiddler
and the Watcher tool (http://websecuritytool.codeplex.com) installed for
the hands-on session.

Pen-testers like to find bugs. Auditors like to find issues. Developers
wish they would all go away. And what's everyone end up doing - running
scanners, static analysis tools, instrumentation and code reviews.
Watcher is a passive Web-app testing tool released as an Open Source
project. It fills an important gap & it assists during the manual
runtime testing process. It's literally as simple as it gets, you click
'enable', browse your web-app, and watch the findings start popping up.
Watcher silently examines all traffic and makes logical decisions to
identify real issues. There's low-overhead required, and nothing
intrusive. Watcher works as a manual reviewer's assistant. For auditors
if finds the policy violations Watcher finds. For developers it will
find the configuration issues and design weaknesses. For the pen-tester,
Watcher provides all this plus real 'hot-spot' detection. With a view of
the hot-spots, pen-testers know where to look closer to find deeper
issues leading to cross-site scripting and other important
vulnerabilities. Watcher has been in development for some time and
includes over 35 checks. This presentation intends to demonstrate this
Open Source tool, discussing some of the checks and vulnerabilities in
detail, and present the extensibility model.

## The speaker

Chris Weber is co-founder at Casaba Security where he's leading product
development for new tools to assist in the field of Unicode and
Web-application security. He has spent years focusing on software
security testing for some of the world's leading software development
companies and online properties. He's authored several security books,
articles and presentations, and regularly speaks at industry
conferences. He's worked as a security researcher and consultant for
over a decade identifying hundreds of security vulnerabilities in many
widely used products including Web browsers and Web-applications.

[Category:OWASP_AppSec_DC_09](Category:OWASP_AppSec_DC_09 "wikilink")
[Category:OWASP_Conference_Presentations](Category:OWASP_Conference_Presentations "wikilink")