## The presentation

![Owasp_logo_normal.jpg](Owasp_logo_normal.jpg
"Owasp_logo_normal.jpg")As Flash has evolved over the last several
years, the programming paradigm has shifted from timeline-based movies
to Flex applications written in ActionScript. During this progression,
new and unique security risks have been uncovered which can be exploited
to attack this new technology. This talk provides an attackers approach
to exploiting flex technology, breaking developers assumptions,
subverting applications, and then building them back up from the
beginning in a defensive and secure manner. This talk is designed for
anyone who builds, tests, or deploys flex applications and will provide
the tools, techniques, and guidance for breaking and securing this
technology. This talk will include real-world examples and
demonstrations of common attacks performed against flex applications
seen through the eyes of a pentester.

## The speakers

Jon Rose is a security consultant for Trustwave - SpiderLabs. Jon has
close to a decade of experience performing network and application
security assessments, including network penetration testing, blackbox
application testing, and code reviews across a wide range of programming
languages and technologies. Jon has also led IT policy, standards, and
guideline projects, as well as providing IT security remediation support
for commercial and government clients. His security expertise also
includes building enterprise security programs, providing guidance in an
enterprise security architect role, and building security into
organizations existing software development lifecycle. Jon has created
and delivered security-training courses covering topics such as security
awareness, defensive programming (Java and .Net), secure architecture
and design, penetration testing, and code analysis.

Kevin Stadmeyer is a security consultant for Trustwave - SpiderLabs.
Kevin Stadmeyer is a senior security consultant at Trustwave with the
Application Security Group. His primary expertise is in web application
security but he possesses extensive experience in network, thick/thin
client, and physical security. He has spoken at OWASP and BlackHat
conferences and a variety of interests including application, network
and physical security.

[Category:OWASP_AppSec_DC_09](Category:OWASP_AppSec_DC_09 "wikilink")
[Category:OWASP_Conference_Presentations](Category:OWASP_Conference_Presentations "wikilink")