![468x60-banner-2010.gif](468x60-banner-2010.gif
"468x60-banner-2010.gif")

[Registration](https://guest.cvent.com/EVENTS/Register/IdentityConfirmation.aspx?e=d52c6f5f-d568-4e16-b8e0-b5e2bf87ab3a)
|
[Hotel](https://resweb.passkey.com/Resweb.do?mode=welcome_gi_new&groupID=2766908)
| [Walter E. Washington Convention
Center](http://www.dcconvention.com/)
\== The presentation ==

![Owasp_logo_normal.jpg](Owasp_logo_normal.jpg
"Owasp_logo_normal.jpg")Developers don’t write insecure code on purpose,
they simply work with tools they’re given to deliver functional web
applications. More and more often developers are relying on pre-built
development frameworks (such as JSF, Struts, Spring, DWR, etc) which are
not built to be secure, thus allowing for insecure applications. The
purpose of this project and discussion is to discuss which frameworks
are most in need of attention (and how we can identify those) and then
decide on how to proceed with patching these frameworks upstream in the
code such that it’s easier for a developer to write secure applications
than not. We will discuss which frameworks are in most need of
attention, the project charter and direction, participation and other
project-related items.

## The Panel

**Rafal Los**

Bio posted shortly.

**Josh Abraham**

Joshua “Jabra” Abraham joined Rapid7 in 2006 as a Security Consultant.
Josh has extensive IT Security and Auditing experience and worked as an
enterprise risk assessment analyst for Hasbro Corporation. Josh
specializes in penetration testing, web application security
assessments, wireless security assessments, and custom code development.
He has spoken at BlackHat, DefCon, ShmooCon, The SANS Pentest Summit,
Infosec World, CSI, OWASP Conferences, LinuxWorld, Comdex and BLUG. In
his spare time, he contributes code to open source security projects
such as the BackTrack LiveCD, BeEF, Nikto, Fierce, and PBNJ. He is
frequently quoted in the media regarding Microsoft Patch Tuesday and web
application security by ComputerWorld, DarkReading and SC Magazine.

Speaker bio will be posted shortly.

[Category:AppSec_DC_2010_Presentations](Category:AppSec_DC_2010_Presentations "wikilink")
[Category:OWASP_Conference_Presentations](Category:OWASP_Conference_Presentations "wikilink")