![468x60-banner-2010.gif](468x60-banner-2010.gif
"468x60-banner-2010.gif")

[Registration](https://guest.cvent.com/EVENTS/Register/IdentityConfirmation.aspx?e=d52c6f5f-d568-4e16-b8e0-b5e2bf87ab3a)
|
[Hotel](https://resweb.passkey.com/Resweb.do?mode=welcome_gi_new&groupID=2766908)
| [Walter E. Washington Convention
Center](http://www.dcconvention.com/)
\== The presentation ==

![Owasp_logo_normal.jpg](Owasp_logo_normal.jpg
"Owasp_logo_normal.jpg")In Friendly Traitor 2, Kevin Johnson and Mike
Poor continue to explore the risks and threats exposed by the features
that we keep demanding from developers. Our software clients are
becoming more complex, and attackers have smelled the blood in the water
and are attacking them in droves.

Kevin and Mike will begin by explaining some of the new features of
HTML5 and JavaScript that are being rolled out, and subsequently
exploited. The presentation then delves into the latest in Adobe Flash
exploitation fun and finishes strong with presenting their latest
research in mobile phone "feature" exploitation.

Throughout the talk, Mike and Kevin will be releasing exploit code and
tools that target these features. They will also be releasing their
latest additions to Wadfe Alcorn's BeEF exploit tool developed in order
to exploit these technologies.

## The speakers

Mike Poor's Bio coming soon\!

Kevin Johnson is a security consultant and founder of Secure Ideas.
Kevin came to security from a development and system administration
background. He has many years of experience performing security services
for fortune 100 companies, and in his spare time he contributes to a
large number of open source security projects. Kevin's involvement in
open-source projects is spread across a number of projects and efforts.
He is the founder of many different projects and has worked on others.
He founded BASE, which is a Web front-end for Snort analysis. He also
founded and continues to lead the SamuraiWTF live DVD. This is a live
environment focused on Web penetration testing. He also founded Yokoso
and Laudanum, which are focused on exploit delivery. Kevin is a
certified instructor for SANS and the author of Security 542: Web
Application Penetration Testing and Ethical Hacking. He also presents at
industry events, including DEFCON and ShmooCon, and for various
organizations, like Infragard, ISACA, ISSA, and the University of
Florida.

[Category:AppSec_DC_2010_Presentations](Category:AppSec_DC_2010_Presentations "wikilink")
[Category:OWASP_Conference_Presentations](Category:OWASP_Conference_Presentations "wikilink")