## The Presentation: "Solving Real-World Problems with an Enterprise Security API (ESAPI)"

A great deal of work has gone into aggregating statistics and
information about security vulnerabilities in enterprise applications on
the internet. A lot of work has also been done in creating software
libraries and secure coding guidelines to mitigate vulnerabilities. The
OWASP group has created an ESAPI that is meant to act as a service
provider of security to enterprise applications. There is a lot of
documentation and resources available on what an ESAPI is, but there is
not much information on how to actually implement an ESAPI to mitigate a
specific set of vulnerabilities in an application. This presentation
aims to provide information on how to use ESAPI to solve real-world
security problems in a clear and interactive way. Using ESAPI for Java
and Javascript I will demonstrate examples of vulnerabilities in simple
web applications, describe the problem and solution, then fix the
vulnerabilities. I will also discuss the importance of developing the
ESAPI to fit the business needs of the application.

The presentation will use OWASP ESAPI configured with the reference
implementations for Encoding/Decoding, Encryption, Logging, and
Validation. For Authentication and Access Control a custom JAAS
Implementation to show how easy it is to implement business specific
implementations into the ESAPI framework.

## The Speaker: Chris Schmidt

Chris Schmidt is a Software Engineer for ServiceMagic, in Golden, CO. He
is also a core contributer on the OWASP ESAPI4Java Project and project
owner of the OWASP ESAPI4JavaScript Project. Chris has 13 years
experience in Information Technology as an Systems Engineer, Software
Engineer, and Independent Application Security Consultant. He authors
the Yet Another Developer's Blog and is in the process of writing his
first book on Secure Development Practices centered around the core
concepts of the ESAPI.

[Back to Conference
Agenda](http://www.owasp.org/index.php/Front_Range_OWASP_Conference_2010#tab=Agenda)