## The Presentation: "Application Security Program Management with Vulnerability Manager"

Using free Java-based software, application security managers can now
have increased visibility into and control of enterprise security
programs as well as the data that can be used to support sophisticated
conversations with their managers and executives. Denim Group's
Vulnerability Manager works through a centralized system to allow
security teams to import and consolidate application-level
vulnerabilities, automatically generate virtual patches, monitor attack
attempts, communicate with defect tracking systems, and evaluate team
maturity. Vulnerability Manager is a Java-based web application
available for free under the Mozilla Public License.

This demonstration will cover the major functional areas of the
Vulnerability Manager: • Application portfolio management – Creating a
portfolio of application under management and tracking critical
information about those applications such as associated technologies and
sensitivity of data under management. • Vulnerability import and merging
– Importing results of both static and dynamic scans of code,
de-duplicating results and merging the output from multiple tools into a
unified view of the security state of an application. • Automated
virtual patch generation – Automatically creating IDS/IPS and WAF rules
to provide real-time protection for certain classes of vulnerabilities
as well as consuming log results from WAF/IDS/IPS in order to identify
which vulnerabilities are under active attack. • Defect tracker
integration – Bundling multiple vulnerabilities into packages, sending
them to software defect tracking systems, and monitoring the defects to
identify when software developers have closed them out. • Team maturity
evaluation – Tracking interviews with development teams related to the
security practices they have adopted based on maturity models such as
OpenSAMM.

In addition, the presentation will explain the internals of the
Vulnerability Manager software – the design decisions made as well as
opportunities to extend the system to support additional technologies.

## The Speaker: Bryan Beverly

Bryan Beverly is Lead Consultant at Denim Group with thirteen years of
business application development experience. At Denim Group, Bryan is
responsible for defining and enforcing development processes and for
performing black box and white box scans for clients in the public and
private sectors. An on-site trainer for secure development best
practices, Bryan has trained internal development teams for the
military, commercial software developers, and financial institutions.
Bryan is a co-developer and provides technical leadership on the Open
Source Denim Group [Vulnerability
Manager](http://vulnerabilitymanager.denimgroup.com/) project.

[Back to Conference
Agenda](http://www.owasp.org/index.php/Front_Range_OWASP_Conference_2010#tab=Agenda)