## The Presentation: "The Permanent Campaign: Driving a Secure Software Initiative in the Enterprise"

The majority of information that exists about software security either
focuses on technical means to build secure applications, or strategies
to put controls in a software development process. There is a dearth of
information regarding how managers should push secure initiatives
forward, convincing executives that software security is critical to
trusted business operations. This presentation focuses on how security
officers or development leaders can apply a disciplined approach to
building internal consensus to build secure software. A five-step
process will be laid out that will enable a manager to characterize the
landscape, secure management buy-in, baseline the existing risks, set
modest goals and attempt to achieve them, and sustain the initiative.
Emphasis will be on actionable steps that successful managers have used
to drive the adoption of secure software strategies in large
organizations.

## The Speaker: John Dickson

John Dickson, CISSP, has over 15 years in the information security field
including hands-on experience with intrusion detection systems,
telephony security, and application security in the commercial and
government sectors. In his current position as a Principal at Denim
Group, he helps Chief Security Officers of Fortune 500 clients and
Federal organizations launch successful software initiatives. John
regularly speaks on the topic of application security at venues such as
the RSA Security Conference and the Computer Security Instituteâ€™s (CSI)
conferences.

[Back to Conference
Agenda](http://www.owasp.org/index.php/Front_Range_OWASP_Conference_2010#tab=Agenda)