## The Presentation: "Advanced MITM Techniques for Security Testers"

HTTP proxies such as WebScarab, Paros, and Burp make it easy to inspect
and intercept normal web application traffic. But what can you do when
your web application isn't "normal"? Maybe the client is not a standard
web browser with configurable proxy settings. Maybe an ActiveX object is
used to send non-HTTP traffic. Perhaps the application can't even be
installed on a personal computer, but instead resides on a mobile or
embedded device. In these situations, having the right proxy tools and a
computer running Linux can be the difference between zero vulnerability
findings and uncovering critical design flaws in a short period of time.

This presentation will cover advanced "man in the middle" techniques
that can be used to intercept any TCP stream (including those protected
with SSL/TLS) using a new transparent TCP proxy developed by Intrepidus
Group. These techniques can be used to uncover server and client side
bugs that might otherwise go unnoticed without a lengthy reverse
engineering project. In addition to discussing tools and techniques,
this presentation will also discuss real world programming flaws and
vulnerabilities they've been used to uncover.

## The Speakers

### Rajendra Umadas

Rajendra Umadas is a Consultant with the Intrepidus Group. Mr. Umadas
recently graduated Summa Cum-Laude from The Polytechnic Institute of NYU
with a BS in Computer Engineering. At NYU:Poly, Mr. Umadas pursued a
highly expansive computer security curriculum. He is just as comfortable
sniffing out a memory corruption bug as he is assessing the risk
management decisions of large projects.

Coupled with Mr. Umadas' fresh academic outlook on security, he obtained
a no-nonsense business sense of security while working in an Information
Risk Management arm of a large investment bank. Corporate governance,
segregation of duties, and SOX compliance were all daily concerns for
Mr. Umadas.

Mr. Umadas is eager to establish his own niche in the security world
where he will be the catalyst of some very major innovation. With his
strong academics, proven real world experience, and never-say-no
attitude; it is only a matter of time.

### Aaron Rhodes

Aaron is a Principal Consultant with the Intrepidus Group, specializing
in network and application penetration testing. Over the past 8 years,
Aaron has served clients in the finance, insurance, telecommunications,
energy, medical and retail environments.

Prior to joining Intrepidus Group, Aaron served as a Technical Lead in
Symantec's consulting service group (formerly @Stake), providing
security assessments and actionable recommendations to Symantec's
customers. Aaron has also led security engineering teams servicing large
government networks, developed software for intrusion detection, and
served as part of US Air Force Information Warfare Aggressor Teams
conducting red team exercises.

### Mike Zusman

Mike Zusman is a Principal Consultant with the Intrepidus Group. Prior
to joining Intrepidus Group, Mike held the positions of Escalation
Engineer at Whale Communications (a Microsoft subsidiary), Security
Program Manager at Automatic Data Processing, and lead architect and
developer at a number of smaller firms. In addition to his corporate
experience, Mike is an independent security researcher, and has
responsibly disclosed a number of critical vulnerabilities to commercial
software vendors. He has spoken at a number of top industry events
including CanSecWest, Defcon, Black Hat and regional OWASP events. Mike
also speaks and teaches about information security at NYU/Polytechnic
University. Mike brings 11 years of security, technology, and business
experience to Intrepidus Group. He is a CISSP and an active member of
the OWASP foundation.

[Back to Conference
Agenda](http://www.owasp.org/index.php/Front_Range_OWASP_Conference_2010#tab=Agenda)