## The Presentation: "Real life CSI: Data Mining and Intelligence Gathering for the masses"

The ability to preemptively identify and detail multiple electronic data
elements on behalf of targets across a wide range of the Internet’s
varied data stores is still something that is beyond may organizations
capabilities, however with the increasing use of background intelligence
in both penetration testing and attacks on organizations and their
infrastructure it’s something we all need to be aware of, understand and
be capable of performing rudimentary analysis of available data.

This presentation will discuss various target areas of the Internet
carrying standard web traffic, newsgroups, IRC/ICQ channels, message
boards, archives and other data elements in both native English as well
as other languages where applicable and how to both gather and
effectively analyze the information.

We will examine the digital footprints left behind by the targets and
organizations and explore methods for retrieval and investigation. We
will look at the approaches to retrieving passive and active data
elements and how to connect the sources and various elements under
review. This review will include the ever increasing use of Social Media
sites (LinkedIn 45M+ Facebook 100M+ users) and the use of other digital
media formats.

We will review the entire presentation in both theory and “real world”
examples, obviously we will discuss technologies for retrieval, access,
indexing and searching through the masses of collected information.
We’ll look at some of the successes and some of the pitfalls of
building your own intelligence system, how it relates to current DLP
solutions, and we can take a look at why Goggle isn’t the solution.

## The Speaker: Chris Roberts

Chris Roberts, as co-founder and Electronic Intelligence/Principal
Investigator for Cyopsis and founder and researcher for One World Labs
heads teams of cyber security professionals specializing in assessment
and forensic investigation and runs a research laboratory. He brings a
wealth of knowledge, technical expertise, leadership and analytical
skills gained from eighteen years experience in information technology.
With a focus on information security, his professional experience
includes such roles as Information Security Officer, Director of
Engineering and Architecture, CTO and Technical Architect, leader of IT
Security Architecture and Security Project Management within over 25 of
the fortune 100 companies. Chris’s background in security assessment and
vulnerability testing includes penetration testing, compromise
investigation, analysis and documentation. He has developed and
implemented company-wide information security awareness programs and
frequently speaks and gives presentations on topical security issues.

[Back to Conference
Agenda](http://www.owasp.org/index.php/Front_Range_OWASP_Conference_2010#tab=Agenda)