## The Presentation: "Fundamental Practices and Tools to Implement a Security Development Lifecycle"

Implementing an effective security development lifecycle program is both
a costly and arduous endeavor. During this presentation, we’ll
demonstrate how it is possible to lower the costs associated with this
project by taking advantage of high quality tools freely available on
the internet as well as taking advantage of the fundamental practices
employed by technology giants such as EMC, Juniper, Oracle, Microsoft,
Symantec, Nokia, SAP and Symantec (members of SAFECode.org).

List of subjects discussed during this presentation • Introduction o
What is SAFECode? o Who are the members of SAFECode? o What does
SAFECode do? o How SAFECode differs from SAMM and BSIMM? • Why implement
a Security Development Lifecycle program? • The Security Development
Lifecycle o Description of each phase and activities that must be
accomplished o Differences between the approach taken by various
SAFECode members o My personal experience leading the implementation of
Symantec’s SDL program o Free tools that can be readily applied in each
phase of the Security Development Lifecycle. An emphasis on OWASP tools
will be given. • Analysis of which phase should be implemented first and
why • Final thoughts

## The Speaker: Cassio Goldschmidt

Cassio Goldschmidt is senior manager of the product security team under
the Office of the CTO at Symantec Corporation. In this role he leads
efforts across the company to ensure the secure development of software
products. His responsibilities include managing Symantec’s internal
secure software development process, training, threat modeling,
penetration testing and vulnerability manegement. Cassio’s background
includes over 14 years of technical and managerial experience in the
software industry. During the eight years he has been with Symantec, he
has helped to architect, design and develop several top selling product
releases, conducted numerous security classes, and coordinated various
penetration tests. Cassio is also known for leading the OWASP chapter in
Los Angeles and is a frequent speaker at security conferences worldwide.

Cassio represents Symantec on the SAFECode technical committee and
(ISC)2 in the development of the CSSLP certification. He holds a
bachelor degree in computer science from Pontificia Universidade
Catolica do Rio Grande Do Sul, a masters degree in software engineering
from Santa Clara University, and a masters of business administration
from the University of Southern California.

[Back to Conference
Agenda](http://www.owasp.org/index.php/Front_Range_OWASP_Conference_2010#tab=Agenda)