## The Presentation: "Building a Secure, Compliant Cloud for the Enterprise"

Infrastructure-as-a-Service (IaaS) cloud computing has very quickly
grown from an exotic concept to a known solution, with countless
successful implementations. However, concerns remain about some aspects
of clouds. Security and regulatory compliance are at the top of the
list. When properly managed and configured, a cloud solution can be as
safe, secure and compliant as any in-house solution running on dedicated
servers.

This session will address the sources of confusion as they apply to IaaS
implementations and outline the practices and technologies available to
keep clouds safe and compliant in the areas where they do have unique
vulnerabilities and requirements.

## The Speaker: Matt Ferrari, Director of Platform and Storage Engineering @ Hosting.com

As Hosting.com’s Director of Platform and Storage Engineering, Matt is
responsible for the Engineering group as well as new product development
and product line enhancements. He has helped to advance Hosting.com’s
line of managed Cloud products, which are currently the company’s
fastest growing line of new business.

Matt has been with Hosting.com for over 7 years, moving through multiple
roles which have had him managing, engineering and representing
Hosting.com at industry events. He has been a noted speaker at Executive
Summits, Adobe Max, CFUnited, VMWorld, Microsoft Hosting Summit, and
VMWare User groups in multiple cities. Matt has participated in many
cloud-related panels with some of Hosting.com’s top partners.

Prior to joining Hosting.com, Matt graduated from the University of
Delaware with a degree in Computer Science. He lives in Denver, Colorado
with his wife and two kids and is praying for the Mets to turn it
around.

[Back to Conference
Agenda](http://www.owasp.org/index.php/Front_Range_OWASP_Conference_2010#tab=Agenda)