## The Presentation: "Effectively marketing security as a win for both the business and the customer"

Despite heavily publicized security breaches and expansive industry
regulations, security issues in modern web applications are often
secondary to feature enhancements and customer service requests.
Capturing developer and management attention is more a marketing problem
than a technical discussion. If only security could be promoted as a
feature for the customer, a direct avenue to new sales, perhaps the
business would sit up and pay attention. Jeff Smith and Ben Whaley,
senior resources at Rally Software and Applied Trust, respectively,
developed an architectural security model for a large-scale next
generation web application. Focusing on modern development practices for
a Java and Oracle-based stack, the model captures security
considerations within each module of the application. The security
tenets were categorized and presented in a aesthetically-pleasing
infographic format for consumption by developers, management and
customers alike. As the application matures and grows, the model is
updated to include new modules and the associated security requirements.
The net result for Rally Software is a security conscious development
team, engaged management, and easy answers to tough security questions
from risk-adverse customers.

## The Speakers: Ben Whaley and Jeff Smith

### Ben Whaley

Ben Whaley is the Director of Enterprise Architecture at AppliedTrust,
focusing on enterprise architecture, application security, UNIX and
Linux systems, and performance tuning. Ben is a co-author of the UNIX
and Linux System Administration Handbook, 4th edition, and has
contributed articles to (IN)SECURE Magazine and NetworkWorld.com. He has
worked extensively in the health care, government, and private sectors.
Ben holds a B.S. in Computer Science from CU Boulder, and is a PCI
Qualified Security Assessor, CISSP, and RHCE.

### Jeff Smith

Jeff is a Development Manager at Rally Software and has been developing
software using agile methods for 10 years. Jeff has been developing
software for the web since 1995 and specializing in Java/J2EE systems
for most of that. Jeff holds a B.S. in Computer Information Systems from
Indiana University.

[Back to Conference
Agenda](http://www.owasp.org/index.php/Front_Range_OWASP_Conference_2010#tab=Agenda)