## The Presentation: "Beware of Serialized GUI Objects Bearing Data"

A recently discovered view state vulnerability in Apache MyFaces and Sun
Mojara allows an attacker to access all server-side session data, as
well as some globally-scoped application variables. The technical
details of the vulnerabilities will be explained and a live
demonstration will be performed. A similar vulnerability will also be
demonstrated in Microsoft's ASP.Net.

## The Speakers: David Byrne and Rohini Sulatycki, Trustwave

Rohini Sulatycki is a Security Consultant within the Application
Security practice at Trustwave's SpiderLabs. SpiderLabs is the advanced
security team responsible for Penetration Testing, Application Security,
and Incident Response testing for Trustwave's clients.

Rohini has been involved in the Information Technology industry for more
than 13 years. Rohini specializes in application security testing and
code review conducting a large number of application tests in her
capacity at Trustwave. Rohini has been a technical reviewer for several
books and publications including Java Security and IEEE Security and
Privacy. Rohini has presented at various security events including Black
Hat.

David Byrne is a Senior Security Consultant within the Application
Security practice at Trustwave's SpiderLabs. SpiderLabs is the advanced
security team responsible for Penetration Testing, Application Security,
and Incident Response for Trustwave's clients.

David has been involved with information security for a decade. Before
Trustwave, he was the Security Architect at Dish Network. In 2008, he
released Grendel (grendel-scan.com), an open source web application
security scanner. David frequently presents at security events including
DEFCON, Black Hat, Toorcon, SANS, and OWASP AppSec.

[Back to Conference
Agenda](http://www.owasp.org/index.php/Front_Range_OWASP_Conference_2010#tab=Agenda)