## The Presentation: "Anatomy of a Logic Flaw"

Traditional vulnerabilities like SQL Injection, buffer overflows, etc,
have well established techniques for discovery and prevention. On the
other hand, logic flaws are incredibly diverse and often unique to the
specific application or business organization. Because of this, logic
flaws have taken on a near mythical status. In the myth, logic flaws are
nearly impossible to find until the elite of the elite hackers launch an
attack to completely own the application.

The reality is far different; logic flaws are not the complex nightmare
that many have made them out to be. This presentation will use
real-world examples to show how logic flaws are typically introduced
into an application, how they can be consistently detected during
testing, and how they can be prevented during development. Instead of
hoping for magic, repeatable processes will be outlined for each of
those items. This will prove beneficial to anyone responsible for
application security: programmers, architects, managers, and pen
testers.

## The Speakers: David Byrne and Charles Henderson, Trustwave

David Byrne is a Senior Security Consultant within the Application
Security practice at Trustwave's SpiderLabs. SpiderLabs is the advanced
security team responsible for Penetration Testing, Application Security,
and Incident Response for Trustwave's clients.

David has been involved with information security for a decade. Before
Trustwave, he was the Security Architect at Dish Network. In 2008, he
released Grendel (grendel-scan.com), an open source web application
security scanner. David frequently presents at security events including
DEFCON, Black Hat, Toorcon, SANS, and OWASP AppSec.

Charles Henderson is the Director of Application Security Services at
Trustwave's SpiderLabs. He has been in the information security industry
for over fifteen years. His team specializes in application security
including application penetration testing, code review, and training in
secure development techniques. The team's clients range from the largest
of the Fortune lists to small and midsized companies interested in
improving their application security posture.

Charles routinely speaks on various subject matters relating to
application security at conferences such as Black Hat, SOURCE, Merchant
Risk Council, IAFCI, and OWASP AppSec.

[Back to Conference
Agenda](http://www.owasp.org/index.php/Front_Range_OWASP_Conference_2010#tab=Agenda)