attending:

  - Nishi Kumar
  - Sebastien Goria
  - Martin Knobloch
  - Kate Hartman n (GEC external)

excuused:

  - Fabio

no-info:

  - Kuai
  - Eduardo

\====================================================================

1.  1 discussion of the governance

<http://www.owasp.org/index.php/Global_Education_Committee_Governance>
Mission: we discussed the mission statement of the governance page

The mission statement should cover Guidiance an enabling of: training,
trainers and materials fromout OWASP and OWASP events (OWAsp training
days, training at (non-) owasp conferences)

Kate: Kate explains the possibilitie of having a facilitator. If the GEC
things this would be helping the GEC, this should be in the GEC's
budget.

Current members: -\> Nishi -\> Sebastien -\> Fabio -\> Cecil

New Members: -\> Carlos Serrão -\> Tony Gottlieb (not enough votes) -\>
Zaki Akhmad (no votes) -\> Marc Chisinevski (1 vote) -\> Nishi has one
more potentional member \<nishi, put in his name\>

\--\> question for the committee chair meeting, how to keep the
aplication

`   site open for aplying to the committees`

To exit: -\> Eduardo Neves Not a member anymore: -\> Mano

Chair: Martin sends out an email of who is volunteering for chair Voting
will be done by doodle.com, Martin will setup\!

Regular Meetings: This time is great for Nishi (4pm her local time),
unfortunately it does not work for Fabio. Nishi is in favor of a fixed
meeting time. Sebastien supports this. Proposed meeting time will be
from 9 to 11 gmt+1 (Martin) Nishi, from 4 to 5 -\> Sebastien, from 9 to
10 -\> Fabio, from 8 to 9 -\> Kuai,??? -\> Cecil. ??

Revmoval, agreed by Nishi, Martin and Sebastien Travel, agreed by Nishi,
Martin and Sebastien

\======================================================================

Goals & Budget: Martin does set up a wiki with the presentation from
Nishi. We will use the discussion tab to discuse the subject and will do
in detail the next GEC meeting.
<http://www.owasp.org/index.php/File:OWASP_Global_Education_Committee.pptx>

<http://www.owasp.org/images/2/27/Committee_Chairs_Meeting_Minutes_14Mar2011.pdf>

\======================================================================

Next meeting in two weeks, April 4th. Martin will create an google
agenda invite\! Martin from 9 to 11 gmt+1 (Martin) Nishi, from 4 to 5
-\> Sebastien, from 9 to 10 -\> Fabio, from 8 to 9 -\> Kuai,??? -\>
Cecil. ??

\++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

Sebastien updated on Paris training day, it will be april 26th in Paris.
-\> Ministery of defense is one of the sponsors the koffie

`  and does send developers to the trainers and is interested in more OWASP trainings!`

\-\> Vendor of WebApplication Firewall sponsors the lunch

Hi potentional of trainers, as one of the trainer is from
<http://www.ssi.gouv.fr/> and Dinis. Two trainings in english has been
accepted, 6 trainers is total \<Sebastien, please fill in the blanks\>

\++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

Martin had a short update on the OWASP Academy Portal