### Chapter Sponsors

We are currently seeking OWASP Corporate Members who would like to
aligned themselves with the Ghana chapter and therefore contribute funds
to our chapter. Alternatively you can be a facility/venue sponsor or a
refreshments sponsors. If Interested please get in touch with the
Chapter leaders.

### Meeting Sponsors

The following is the list of organisations who have generously provided
us with space for OWASP Ghana chapter meetings:

<table cellpadding="10" cellspacing="0" border="0">

<tr>

<td>

![](Ghana_Tech_Labs.jpg)

</td>

<td>

![University_of_Ghana.png](University_of_Ghana.png
"University_of_Ghana.png")

</td>

<td>

![GIMPA_logo.jpg](GIMPA_logo.jpg "GIMPA_logo.jpg")

</td>

<td>

![LAUG_logo.jpg](LAUG_logo.jpg "LAUG_logo.jpg")

</td>

</tr>

</table>

</ul>

## Chapter Volunteers

Volunteering carries many benefits including meeting great people,
learning new skills, and above all – fun\! We appreciate the assistance
that our volunteers provide to ensure our events run smoothly. If you
would like to help out for few hours with administrative tasks on the
day of events, please reach out via email or twitter. The following is
the list of organisation(s) who have provided us volunteers:

<table cellpadding="10" cellspacing="0" border="0">

<tr>

<td>

![Ghana_Volunteer_Program.png](Ghana_Volunteer_Program.png
"Ghana_Volunteer_Program.png")

</td>

</tr>

</table>

</ul>

## Stay in Touch

<center>

|                                                             |                                                                                  |                                                                                                                     |
| ----------------------------------------------------------- | -------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| ![Meetup-button.png](Meetup-button.png "Meetup-button.png") | ![Follow-us-on-twitter.png](Follow-us-on-twitter.png "Follow-us-on-twitter.png") | ![Mailchimp_Logo-Horizontal_Black.png](Mailchimp_Logo-Horizontal_Black.png "Mailchimp_Logo-Horizontal_Black.png") |

</center>

## Next Meeting/Event(s)

Chapter meetings are held several times a year, typically at a location
provided by our current facility sponsor.

### November/December 2019 (Exact date TBC and annouced)

#### TICKETS:

This event will be free to attend for both members and non-members of
OWASP and is open to anyone interested in application security and cyber
security.

Register to attend this and our future events via
[meetup.com](https://www.meetup.com/OWASP-Ghana-Chapter/) Or via
[eventbrite.com](https://www.eventbrite.com/e/applicationsoftware-security-september-meetup-by-owasp-ghana-tickets-70303689227)

**Code of Conduct**:

  -
    We hope you enjoy our events, we care deeply about inclusivity and
    diversity so that OWASP is a comfortable and welcoming community for
    everyone. Please reach out to one of our chapter leaders if you have
    any feedback or would like to speak to us, we take these matters
    very seriously. You can find out more about our policies here:
    <https://www.owasp.org/index.php/Governance/Conference_Policies>

## Speaking at OWASP Ghana Chapter Events

#### Call For Speakers

Call For Speakers is open - if you would like to present a 15-45 minute
talk on Application / Cyber Security at future OWASP Ghana Chapter
events - please review and agree with the [OWASP Speaker
Agreement](Speaker_Agreement "wikilink") and submit your
talk/presentation via [Google
Forms](https://docs.google.com/forms/d/e/1FAIpQLSep6HqWEJoN4l_vbytrAEChBGOyge-A61nd_0JvGsl6r5HpZA/viewform)

<center>

|                                                           |
| --------------------------------------------------------- |
| ![Google_Forms.png](Google_Forms.png "Google_Forms.png") |

</center>

Please note that you can also pair up with a colleague and present a
joint talk. Please ensure that your talk is objective, stresses open
source approaches, and avoids references to any commercial offerings of
your company. We are looking forward to your submissions

Speakers are prefered to use [OWASP Presentation
Template](https://www.owasp.org/index.php/Category:OWASP_Presentations)
for submissions.

## Past Events

### Saturday 21st September 2019 10am-2pm

'''Location: '''Ghana Tech Lab, Accra Digital Lab, Ring Road West,
Accra.

'''Attendance: ''' 55 participants

#### TALKS:

  - **WAF Filter 404 Not Found - Blay Safian** ([Slides
    PDF](Media:_Waf-filter-404-not-found.pdf "wikilink"))

<!-- end list -->

  - **Lighting Talk on Broken Authentication: What it means, and what
    you can do - Hassan Abudu** ([Slides
    PDF](Media:_OWASP_broken_authentication.pdf "wikilink"))

<!-- end list -->

  - **Wireless Security and its Discontents - Boyan Lazarevski**
    ([Slides PDF](Media:_OWASP-Sep-2019-BL_\(v.2\).pdf "wikilink"))

#### SPEAKERS:

**Blay Safian**

  -
    An Electrical Engineering and Automation Degree holder and a
    certified Advance Penetration tester. Defcon China 2.0 attendee.

**Boyan
Lazarevski([@BoyanLazarevski](https://twitter.com/BoyanLazarevski))**

  -
    Boyan is a certified IT Operations Specialist with a passion for
    computer hardware and cybersecurity.

**Hassan Abudu([@hassanabudu](https://twitter.com/hassanabudu))**

  -
    Hassan is OWASP Ghana chapter co leader, a web developer, a teacher
    and a technologist in general.

#### CTF for Developers:

OWASP Ghana Chapter is pleased to announce the 2019 OWASP Ghana CTF
Tournament for Application Developers.

CTF (Capture The Flag) is a type of computer security competition.
Contestants are presented with a set of challenges and puzzles which
test their creativity, technical coding (and googling) skills, and
problem-solving ability. Challenges usually cover a number of categories
and when solved, each yields a “flag” which is submitted to a real-time
scoring service. The difficulty levels are from beginners to advanced.
CTF tournaments are a great and fun way for software developers to learn
a wide array of cyber security / application security skills in a safe
and legal environment. Most programming languages supported. IMPORTANT:
Please bring your own LAPTOP and a charger for it to this event

This CTF environment is kindly provided by [Secure Code
Warrior](https://securecodewarrior.com/).

### Saturday, 8th June 2019 10am-2pm

'''Location: '''Department of Computer Science, University of Ghana,
Legon, Accra.

'''Attendance: ''' 65 participants

#### TALKS:

  - **The State of Phishing Attack Vector - Isaac Kweku Acheampong**
    ([Slides
    PDF](Media:_Phishing_Presentation\(OWASP_Ghana\).pdf "wikilink"))

<!-- end list -->

  - **Lighting Talk on HTTPS - Hassan Abudu** (no slides)

<!-- end list -->

  - **Smart Grid IoT Security - Kwaku Sarpong Manu** ([Slides
    PDF](Media:_Smart_Grid_IoT_Security_\(OWASP_Ghana\).pdf "wikilink"))

<!-- end list -->

  - **Achilles and the Bee - Fabiola Amedo** ([Slides
    PDF](Media:_Achilles_and_the_Bee_Presentation\(OWASP_Ghana\).pdf "wikilink"))

<!-- end list -->

  - **Anatomy of a DNS Cache Poisoning Attack - Boyan Lazarevski**
    ([Slides
    PDF](Media:_DNS_Cache_Poisoning\(OWASP_GHANA\).pdf "wikilink"))

#### SPEAKERS:

**Isaac Kweku Acheampong**

  -
    Isaac is currently working as a Facilities Manager, holds BSc IT and
    Sec+ certified.

**Kwaku Sarpong Manu([@_kwaku__](https://twitter.com/_kwaku__))**

  -
    Kwaku is a Graduate Computer engineering student from KNUST. Avid
    reader, active sportsman and student politician. He's also an
    student Consultant at GWCL, advising the Technology and Innovation
    Department.

**Fabiola Amedo([@fabluzi](https://twitter.com/fabluz))**

  -
    Fabiola is currently working at KPMG Ghana as an IT advisory
    professional.

**Boyan
Lazarevski([@BoyanLazarevski](https://twitter.com/BoyanLazarevski))**

  -
    Boyan is a certified IT Operations Specialist.

### Saturday, 16th March 2019 10am-2pm

'''Location: '''Department of Computer Science, University of Ghana,
Legon, Accra.

'''Attendance: ''' 85 participants

#### TALKS:

  - **OWASP Introduction, Welcome and News - Ash Dastmalchi** ([Slides
    PDF](Media:_Intro_Presenation_-_Chapter_meeting_March_2019.pdf "wikilink"))

<!-- end list -->

  -
    Welcome and a brief update on OWASP Projects & Events from the OWASP
    Ghana Chapter Leader.

<!-- end list -->

  - **Your web server has been hacked now what? by Archzilon
    Eshun-Davies** ([Slides
    PDF](Media:_OWASP_Your_Web_Server_Has_been_hacked_now_what.pdf "wikilink"))

<!-- end list -->

  -
    A walk through on what to look out for after a web server has been
    hacked by analysing the logs and how to prevent future hacks.

<!-- end list -->

  - **Cross-Site Scripting Attacks (XSS) by Adam Nurudini** ([Slides
    PDF](Media:_OWASP_XSS_Presentation_-_By_Adam_Nurudini.pdf "wikilink"))

<!-- end list -->

  -
    Intro to XSS, how it works, what it affects and how to prevent it
    along with a live demo.

<!-- end list -->

  - **OWASP Juice Shop Project video presentation by Bjoern Kimminich**
    ([Youtube.com](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Lu0-kDdtVf4))

<!-- end list -->

  -
    A playback of recording from [OWASP BeNeLux-Days
    2018](OWASP_BeNeLux-Days_2018 "wikilink") giving a complete
    introduction to the [OWASP Juice
    Shop](https://www.owasp.org/index.php/OWASP_Juice_Shop_Project)
    including a live demonstration of the application and how to hack
    it.

#### SPEAKERS:

**Adam Nurudini ([@Bra__Qwesi](https://twitter.com/Bra__Qwesi))**

  -
    Adam Nurudini is the Lead Security Researcher @ Netwatch
    Technologies, project Consultant, Information Security Architects
    Ltd, Member, Cybersecurity Resilience Service Team and a Web
    Application Penetration Tester. He is also the president of the
    GIMPA School of Technology Students Association and Black Hat
    Attendee.

**Archzilon Eshun-Davies ([@laudarch](https://twitter.com/laudarch))**

  -
    Arch is CISO and CEO of Tactical Intelligence Security(TAISE)

'''Bjoern Kimminich ([@bkimminich](https://twitter.com/bkimminich)) '''

  -
    OWASP [Juice Shop
    Project](https://www.owasp.org/index.php/OWASP_Juice_Shop_Project)
    Leader, more Information about Bjoern can be found via his OWASP
    profile page by [clicking
    here](https://www.owasp.org/index.php/User:Bjoern_Kimminich)

### Saturday, 24th November 2018 2pm-5pm

'''Location: '''GIMPA School of Technology, Greenhill, Accra. (Legon
Bypass)

'''Attendance: ''' 120 participants

#### TALKS:

  - **OWASP Introduction, Welcome and News - Ash Dastmalchi**

<!-- end list -->

  -
    Welcome and a brief update on OWASP Projects & Events from the OWASP
    Ghana Chapter Leader.

<!-- end list -->

  - *' "OWASP Risk Rating presented by OWASP Risk Rating Management" -
    Yoseman Putra*' ([Slides
    Online](https://slideplayer.com/slide/12574283/))

<!-- end list -->

  -
    OWASP Risk Rating Management Project is a tool projects aim to
    educate user who want to assessment more than one or many web
    application using owasp risk rating methodologies. The project page
    can be visited by clicking here
    [1](https://www.owasp.org/index.php/OWASP_Risk_Rating_Management)

<!-- end list -->

  - ''' "Defensive Coding" - Archzilon Eshun-Davies ''' ([Slides
    PDF](Media:_Defensive_Coding_Presentation_OWASP_Ghana.pdf "wikilink"))

<!-- end list -->

  -
    A talk on defensive coding practices regardless of the language
    used.

<!-- end list -->

  - *' "Open-Source Intelligence (OSINT)" - Adam Nurudini*' ([Slides
    PDF](Media:_OWASP_OSINT_Presentation.pdf "wikilink"))

<!-- end list -->

  -
    A run down on what is OSINT, methods of data gathering via various
    resources, followed by a hands-on demo using open source tools.

<!-- end list -->

  - *' "Wordpress Security" - Nii Ankrah*' ([Slides
    PDF](Media:_Niiankrah_owasp_nov_18.pdf "wikilink"))

<!-- end list -->

  -
    Wordpress Content Management Systems has gained a lot of popularity
    since its initial launch thanks to its user friendliness and the
    vast collection of plugins and themes. It is estimated 30% of the
    world’s website are powered by Wordpress. Like any other web
    application it is important you deploy and manage properly to ensure
    your data is safe. Sadly this has not been the case, with over 73.2%
    of the most popular WordPress installations are vulnerable to
    vulnerabilities which can be detected using free automated tools.
    This talk will focus on how to deploy Wordpress safely and managing
    wordpress instances in a way that safeguards the application from
    common vulnerabilities and attacks.

#### SPEAKERS:

**Ade Yoseman Putra (@johnleedik)**

  -
    OWASP Jakarta Indonesia Chapter Leader, more Information about Ade
    can be found via his OWASP profile page by [clicking
    here](https://www.owasp.org/index.php/Ade_Yoseman_Putra)

**Archzilon Eshun-Davies (@laudarch)**

  -
    Arch is CISO and CEO of Tactical Intelligence Security(TAISE)

**Adam Nurudini (@Bra__Qwesi)**

  -
    Adam Nurudini is the Lead Security Researcher @ Netwatch
    Technologies, project Consultant, Information Security Architects
    Ltd, Member, Cybersecurity Resilience Service Team and a Web
    Application Penetration Tester. He is also the president of the
    GIMPA School of Technology Students Association.

**Nii Ankrah (@niiankrah)**

  -
    Nii has transitioned into information security with special interest
    malware analysis and helping companies achieve a good cyber security
    posture His engagements over the period include performing data
    centre and physical security reviews for clients within various
    industries, vulnerability assessments, application security audits
    and incident response.

### Saturday, 18th August 2018 2pm-5pm

'''Location: '''Kofi Annan ICT Centre, Ridge, Accra. (Next to Ministry
of Communications)

'''Attendance: ''' 70 participants

#### TALKS:

  - **OWASP Introduction, Welcome and News - Ash Dastmalchi & Hassan
    Abudu**

<!-- end list -->

  -
    Welcome and a brief update on OWASP Projects & Events from the OWASP
    Ghana Chapter Leaders.

<!-- end list -->

  - *' "Injection Attack" - Hassan Abudu*' ([Slides
    PDF](Media:_OWASP_injection_attacks.pdf "wikilink"))

<!-- end list -->

  -
    A quick primer of injection attacks including SQL injection.

<!-- end list -->

  - *' "Bypassing Security Restrictions , The case of CVE-2018-5955" -
    Adam Nurudini*' ([Slides
    PDF](Media:_OWASP_Gitstack_Presentation.pdf "wikilink"))
  - *' "Exploiting Server Side Template Injection with TPLMAP" - Divine
    Tsa*' ([Slides PDF](Media:_Owasp_SSTI_final.pdf "wikilink"))
  - *' "Insecure Direct Object Reference IDOR(Broken Access Control)" -
    Eric Biako*' ([Slides PDF](Media:_IDOR.pdf "wikilink"))

#### SPEAKERS:

**Hassan Abudu(@hassanabudu)**

  -
    Hassan Abudu is OWASP Ghana chapter co-leader. A Stanford University
    graduate, Hassan started the Freecodecamp in Ghana teaching students
    via weekly sessions various aspects of Web Development. He's also a
    freelance web developer and a part time artist.

**Adam Nurudini (@Bra__Qwesi)**

  -
    Adam Nurudini is a web application penetration tester at Netwatch
    Technologies and a recent Black Hat Asia attendee.

**Divine Tsa (@selormofmars)**

  -
    Divine Tsa is a cybersecurity engineer at a reputable tech company.
    He helps develop information security plans and policies, tests for
    vulnerabilities, monitors and investigates security breaches. During
    his 10 years experience in information technology, he has served in
    a variety of leadership, technical, and information security roles,
    including implementing the cybersecurity project in the central
    bank. Divine holds a bachelors degree in business administration and
    a post graduate diploma in IT from GIMPA.

**Eric Biako**

  -
    Eric has a Bsc in IT and a CEH v9. He's currently an Information
    security officer at E-connecta as well as moderator at Legal
    hackmen.

[Category:OWASP Chapter](Category:OWASP_Chapter "wikilink")
[Category:Africa](Category:Africa "wikilink")