Approved per [Global Chapter
Committee/Meetings/2011-01](Global_Chapter_Committee/Meetings/2011-01 "wikilink")
on 2-Feb-2011

## Mission

The OWASP [Global Chapters
Committee](Global_Chapter_Committee "wikilink") provides the support
required by the local OWASP chapters to thrive and contribute to the
overall mission and goals of OWASP.

## Membership

The Global Chapters Committee shall be comprised of representatives as
nominated by the OWASP membership in compliance with the process at the
[How to join a Committee page](How_to_Join_a_Committee "wikilink"). Once
a Member has been nominated to the committee, the current members shall
vote on that Memberâ€™s application.

### Chair

The Global Chapters Committee Members shall elect a Chair to serve a
term of 12 months at the first meeting each calendar year.

## Responsibilities

### Members

  - Members are responsible for attending at least 75% of the regular
    scheduled meetings.
  - Members are responsible for voting

### Chair

  - Attend or send a Global Chapters Committee Representative to all
    OWASP Board Meetings (the role of the board representative to be
    discussed during the summit)
  - Schedule and conduct Global Chapters Committee Regular Meetings
  - Manage Global Chapters Committee Budget
  - Provide meeting minutes

## Regular Meetings

A regular meeting of the OWASP Global Chapters Committee shall be held
at least quarterly in each calendar year. Meetings will be scheduled
based on the availability of the majority of the members and may be
conducted in person and/or virtually. Additional regular meetings may be
called by the Global Chapters Committee Chair. Meetings shall be
scheduled at least one week in advance and will be open for any OWASP
Member to attend.

A majority of the number of Global Chapters Committee Members shall
constitute a quorum for the transaction of Global Chapters Committee
business. If quorum is not established, the chair may adjourn the
meeting.

### Minutes

Minutes of the meeting shall be recorded by the chair, or their designee
and made available to all OWASP members

## Voting

Any Global Chapters Committee Member can request a vote on an action.
Any action taken by the Global Chapters Committee shall be decided by
the majority (50% + 1) of the Global Chapters Committee Members. In case
of a tie, the chair will make a final decision. Voting will generally
occur during regular meetings, however any votes recorded via email
shall be open for 24 hours or until a majority has been established.

## Conflict of Interest

No Global Chapters Committee member shall be permitted to vote on
matters involving their home chapter directly, or any self identified
matter where the objectivity of the member may be in question. Any
conflict of interest shall be entered into the minutes.

## Removal from Committee

A committee Member may be removed when

  - The Member participates in less than 50% of regular meetings in a
    calendar year
  - The Member does not participate in any regular meetings in a 90 day
    period without providing prior notice to the chair
  - A motion for removal is approved via a unanimous vote of the other
    committee Members

The Chair may be removed at any time by a majority vote of the other
committee members. A new temporary chair shall immediately be elected to
complete the term of the outgoing chair.

## Travel

From time to time, committee members may travel on behalf of the
committee and at the expense of the OWASP Foundation. Any such travel
shall first be approved by the Chair, availability of funds confirmed,
and notification of travel be provided to the other committee Members.
In the event that the Chair denies the request, or is unavailable,
travel may be approved by concurrence of any two Global Chapters
Committee members (non-inclusive of the traveling member) so long as
funds are available.

Upon return, the traveling Member shall submit an expense report to the
Chair with receipts for any

  - Transportation (Airfare, POV, Train, Bus ect)
  - POV will be reimbursed at $.50 a mile
  - Lodging (Room Charges, Taxes and Fees)
  - Meals/Incidental Expenses

Transportation and Lodging expenses will be reimbursed at the rate of
actual expenses incurred. Meals/Incidental expenses shall be reimbursed
on actual expenditures with a daily cap as defined by the US General
Services Administration (http://www.gsa.gov/portal/category/100120) or
US Department of State Per Diem Rate
(http://aoprals.state.gov/web920/per_diem.asp) for the destination.