**Membership Committee Monthly Call Date:** March 20, 2012

**Time:** 12 noon EST

**Location:** 1. Please join my meeting, Tuesday, March 20, 2012 at
12:00 PM Eastern Daylight Time.
<https://www3.gotomeeting.com/join/519737486>

2\. Use your microphone and speakers (VoIP) - a headset is recommended.
Or, call in using your telephone.

Australia: +61 (0) 2 8014 4934 Austria: +43 (0) 7 2088 1399 Belgium: +32
(0) 38 08 1855 Canada: +1 (416) 900-1164 Denmark: +45 (0) 69 91 88 61
Finland: +358 (0) 942 41 5777 France: +33 (0) 182 880 455 Germany: +49
(0) 898 7806 6460 Ireland: +353 (0) 14 845 975 Italy: +39 0 699 36 98 80
Netherlands: +31 (0) 708 912 514 New Zealand: +64 (0) 9 909 7882 Norway:
+47 21 03 58 95 Spain: +34 931 81 6668 Sweden: +46 (0) 852 503 498
Switzerland: +41 (0) 435 0167 07 United Kingdom: +44 (0) 203 535 0622
United States: +1 (786) 358-5411

Access Code: 519-737-486 Audio PIN: Shown after joining the meeting

Meeting ID: 519-737-486

**Attendees:**

Kelly Santalucia

Kate Hartmann

Helen Gao

Dan Cornell

Ofer Maor

Gandhi Narasimha

**Notes:**

**1.** **Will Bechtel from Qualys Award Proposal**

  - What is the Issue / Goal:

1.Recognize unsung heros of Web Application Security 2.OWASP Awards (Web
Application Security Person of the Year) 3. Award - statue like oscars
but with the WASP, write up on OWASP website and referenced on Qualys
website as well 4. Selection Criteria: work or involvement in web
application security, local involvement. Not a nationally recognized
personality. 5. Chapters elect local winners during summer months. We
provide rules (selection criteria, etc) for chapters to conduct vote.
After all chapters have selected winners (by a cut-off date) OWASP board
reviews criteria and chapter winners and pick 5 chapter winners as
national finalists. Finalists invited to OWASP Annual Conference in
Austin. Membership attending conference vote for National winner. All
finalists get iPad. Winner gets something extra, big feature on website
and large OWASP award.

  - Dan is concerned how much support we would get from the local
    chapters. It was a challenge last year at AppSecUSA 2011 in MN when
    Kate tried to do the sort of the same thing last year.
  - Kate says that there was not much participation last year. She went
    to the committee chairs for nominees. Kate questions "why are doing
    this with Qualys" She expressed she is not comfortable doing a
    member of the year award with a corporate supporter. If it was just
    OWASP involved, she is all for it, but not if a corporate supporter
    is driving it.
  - Kelly - Qualys just thinks it is a good idea to do.
  - Kate - agrees and is into giving out awards, just opposed to it
    being given out by a corporate supporter. If it is foundation driven
    she is behind it 100%.
  - Helen - If it is a good idea it does not matter where it is driven
    from exterior or interior. She thinks their part is to provide the
    sponsorship.
  - Kelly - This is all the information I have and as soon as I have
    more information I will be sure to pass it along to the GMC. We can
    wait on this until more information is available from Will.
  - GMC - agrees to wait for more specifics on the proposal

**2. Linkedin** Currently OWASP has a Linkedin group that was created
years ago and its free and open. Recently Michael Coates proposed a
member only subgroup.

  - Dan - believes it looks like a badge that goes on a current member
    of OWASP's profile in Linkedin. There is no secret discussion in
    regards to this group. All content must be available to everyone in
    and outside the group.
  - Helen - What value does it add?
  - Dan - just a badge on your linkedin page
  - Helen - does it create any technical issues
  - Kelly - is fine with keeping track of this and will work with
    Michael on the process. Expiring members might be an issue but I can
    work with Michael on it.
  - Ofer - as long as it does not come instead of what we have now. If
    it does come instead of what we have now it would not be good. We
    could use any publicity we can get.
  - Kelly - Believes Michael referred it to the same thing as a
    membership card only digital
  - Helen - We should spread OWASP and give as many perks as we can. It
    is very tricky and is a little concerned with the honorary
    membership.
  - Gandhai- what if someone is not a member but wants to be included in
    subgroup as a supporter not a paid member?
  - Helen - defines a supporter to: voting rights, membership...anyone
    who has supported OWASP as a chapter leader, project leader. Members
    defined to voting rights and money.
  - Kelly - keep it the same as a membership card. We are not hiding
    anything from anyone, just a replacement for the card.
  - Gandhi- we need to make the message clear this is not exclusive

**3. Bundle Membership** We have decided in the last meeting to test the
water by adding "for groups of 3 or more contact Kelly" to the new
individual membership page. Helen will send to all committee and leaders
for feedback. Review in 3 months. If feedback is positive then add to
individual membership page as well as corporate membership page. The
goal is to encourage corporate sponsored individual memberships.

  - Dan - the only concern he has is that we have had interest in the
    past from big corporations who have wanted to buy 10000 memberships.
    It gives that corporation a crazy disproportion in voting powers.
  - Ofer - they can do that today
  - Helen - we are here to stop abuse of this benefit
  - Ofer - will figure out a solution should this issue arise
  - Kelly - can we put a cap on membership? Say only allow them to
    purchase a bulk membership up to 50 individual membership.
  - Dan - there was a request before when a corporation wanted to
    purchase 10000 memberships for their developers. Membership gets
    tied specifically with voting and if we make it easy for them to buy
    large blocks of votes it will impact the election. He likes the idea
    of having other people getting involved in OWASP, but they would
    also be entitled to voting rights. Dan has yet to think of a way to
    prevent them from impacting the election.
  - Kelly - can we make group memberships not have voting rights?
  - Dan - voting is the only thing that is tangible that we can restrict
    non-members from voting. I don't think this is something we can
    handle.
  - Helen - say I buy 10000 memberships, we verify each membership email
    is associated with a valid person. Would that help prevent abuse?
  - Ofer - not really because they could instruct their people how to
    vote. I think the most concerning than an actually organization
    viciously trying to buy OWASP. Say I am KPMG and I buy all my global
    security consultants worldwide a membership say 500 people. Now
    there is a election and a KPMG person is running for the board. Then
    we have a shift in power just because we have one candidate who is
    running and they have their people vote for him.
  - Dan - is less concerned of someone maliciously doing this and more
    concerned we look at our electorate and there is 1500 people who
    were previously members that were spread across the industry and
    then all the sudden there are 1000 new ones, so we have 40% of the
    electorate comes from one organization. That is just a very scewed
    voting profile. Maybe people could order large mass of books to
    spread awareness, rather than allowing them to purchase membership
    in bulk. He is concerned that if we make it easy for people to buy
    memberships in bulk that membership is tied to voting and if we try
    to separate the two it put us in a not so good situation. We should
    not make it easy to mass buy membership.
  - Ofer - what if we people were able to vote only if they have been
    very active in OWASP over the past year. The problem with this is
    how to keep track of it.
  - Helen - Summery of Bundle Membership: seems like a good idea to
    increase membership, but the biggest concern is how to prevent it
    from scewing the election. Put on hold and continue discussion in
    email

**4. Value of Membership Project**

  - Kelly - composed a couple survey questions to be answered by the
    board and committee leaders. Take the questions and answers and
    draft a script to be sent to the board for approval. Once approved,
    have a video made to post on the membership page. This is for both
    corporate and individual membership. If we have to, we can make two
    videos, but want to collect all the information at one time.

Is everyone fine with me sending this to the board and committee
leaders? Yes from all

  - Ofer had to drop off

**5. The new Partner supporter** Helen will follow up with contacts for
each Partner supporter and candidate.

  - Helen - needs to present it to the board and receive final approval

**6. New Membership homepage**

  - Helen - will send a proposal to the board for approval to go live
  - Gandhai - agrees
  - Dan - Did we change the names of some supporters?
  - Helen - the only name changes should be barter to partner
  - Dan - Barter and Trade doc will need to be updated. Dan will update
    this document

**7. Membership Slides**

  - Kelly - created some membership slides to be approved by the board
    to then be sent to all chapter leaders asking them to present them
    at the beginning of their chapter meetings. In hopes to help promote
    membership. The graph on the slide will be updated every 3 months.
  - Helen - agrees
  - Dan - Did we update our mission?
  - Kelly - The mission statement was taken right off the OWASP home
    page
  - Dan - agrees

**8. Promotional Material**

  - Kelly - membership flyer that has been created for some chapters who
    have been asking for some membership material.
  - Helen - this is the first membership flyer she has ever seen
  - Kelly - needs a graphic arts' touch, but it serves the purpose for
    now.
  - Helen - suggests we should send it to all chapter leaders
  - Dan - fine
  - Gandhai - fine

**9. New membership revocation web page** Will present in the next board
meeting. Ran out of time in the last board meeting.

  - Helen - Thanks to Dan for creating this
  - Dan - mainly Tom Brennan, but Dan cleaned it up a bit
  - Helen - the next board meeting Helen will present it. It is a very
    timely piece of material and should go live sooner than later.
  - Kelly - agree
  - Dan - agree
  - Gandhi - agree