\-- Remove all text below until the next comment is encountered if
chapter template is used --

<div align="right">

<owaspbanner />

</div>

<div style="font-size:7pt;text-align:right">

**[Ad Space Available
for 2011](http://www.owasp.org/index.php/Advertising)**

</div>

-----

## Deltagande

OWASP Foundation is a professional association of global members and is
and open to anyone interested in learning more about application
security. Local chapters are run independently and governed by the
following [Chapter Leader Handbook](Chapter_Leader_Handbook "wikilink").
As a [501(c)(3)](http://www.owasp.org/index.php/About_OWASP) non-profit
professional association your support and sponsorship of a meeting venue
and/or refreshments is tax-deductible. Financial contributions should be
made online using the online chapter donation button. To be a
**SPEAKER** at ANY OWASP Chapter in the world simply review the [speaker
agreement](http://www.owasp.org/index.php/Speaker_Agreement) and then
contact the local chapter leader with details of what [OWASP
PROJECT](http://www.owasp.org/index.php/Category:OWASP_Project),
independent research or related software security topic you would like
to present on.

<paypal>Gothenburg</paypal>

\--\> -- Stop remove here --\> ![options](Owaspgbg_brand_logo_web.png
"options")

## Welcome to the Gothenburg chapter homepage

The chapter leaders are:

  - Jonas Magazinius
  - Anders Rosdahl
  - Viktor Lindström
  - Daniel Fallstrand

Members of the board

  - Mikael Falkvidd
  - Johanna Abrahamsson
  - Viktor Hedberg
  - Cina Hellman
  - Martin Kastebo
  - Mikael Wecksten
  - Daniel Hedemalm

The vision for OWASP Gothenburg is to increase interest in and spread
knowledge of how to architect and build secure software systems. It is
to provide a balanced mix of the latest word in academic security
research (cutting edge), established security practices and design
principles for direct application (breadth and maturity). The most
important elements in the construction of secure applications are
design- and development methodologies, OWASP Gothenburg will hence
strive to increase the security-mindedness of application developers.

OWASP Gothenburg brings together a great community of developers,
project leaders and security professionals by offering interesting
presentations and demonstrations on a wide range of security-related
topics. Community hacks, social get-togethers and local as well as
international speakers make us a platform and forum for anyone
interested to meet like-minded people, exchange ideas and discuss the
latest developments and news in security.

Everyone is free to participate in, and attend any of our meetings\!

If you are interested in helping out or if you have a suggestion on e.g.
an exciting and interesting speaker or topic, please get in touch with
us\!

Our primary communication channel is the [owasp-gothenburg
mailinglist](https://groups.google.com/a/owasp.org/forum/#!forum/gothenburg-chapter),
all meetings, events and other news are announced on the mailing list.

Check out our
YouTube-kanal:[owaspgbg](http://www.youtube.com/user/owaspgbg) for video
recordings of previous presentations.

You can also talk to us on [Slack](https://owasp.slack.com/) ( [register
here](https://owasp.slack.com/join/shared_invite/enQtNDI5MzgxMDQ2MTAwLTEyNzIzYWQ2NDZiMGIwNmJhYzYxZDJiNTM0ZmZiZmJlY2EwZmMwYjAyNmJjNzQxNzMyMWY4OTk3ZTQ0MzFhMDY)
and join our channel \#chapter-gothenburg), follow us on
[Twitter](https://twitter.com/owaspgbg) (@owaspgbg) and check us out on
[Facebook](https://www.facebook.com/owaspgbg/).

Some of the historical information below (speaker bios, presentation
abstracts and event information) is in Swedish, we are sorry for any
inconvenience caused by this and will gladly answer any questions you
might have through any of the communication channels listed above.

__TOC__

## OWASP Gothenburg 2019

  - 2019-01-07: Autosec.se + OWASP vol. II Tomas Olovsson and Jonas
    Magazinius: focused on automotive security.
  - 2019-03-14 Anne Marie Eklund Löwinder - Securing parts of the
    Internet - DNS extravaganza\![1](https://youtu.be/uNm4wjx_uN8)
  - 2019-03-14 Per Thorsheim - DNS Security - DNS
    extravaganza\![2](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=5VyYkfR3Fp8)
  - 2019-03-14 Per Thorsheim - Password Security - DNS
    extravaganza\![3](https://youtu.be/nK9hc18MFBc)

## OWASP Gothenburg 2018

  - 2018-05-30: Tanya Janca - Pushing Left Like a Boss (video will be
    added in a short while)
  - 2018-04-11: Jonathan Jogenfors - Hacking Quantum Cryptograhy
    [4](https://youtu.be/Bl9br3kzhws)
  - 2018-04-11: Nadim Kobeissi - Formal Verification for Cryptographic
    Systems in Web Applications [5](https://youtu.be/1mNDROMRZhg)
  - 2018-03-27: OWASP+Autosec.se
  - 2018-01-16: Sven Schleier - OWASP Mobile Security Testing Guide
    (MSTG) [6](https://youtu.be/HLeAIScDMNM)
  - 2018-01-16: Jeroen Willemsen - All about the keying material
    [7](https://youtu.be/Yeybnej03lw)

## OWASP Gothenburg 2017

  - 2017-10-16 Johan Rydberg Möller - Practical HTTP Header Attacks
    [8](https://youtu.be/xSmWUn9S_Os)
  - 2017-10-16 Mikael Falkvidd - IoT LPWAN security Sigfox and LoRaWAN
    [9](https://youtu.be/vGZ7jIGHQXk)
  - 2017-08-23 OWASP SäkPub - Talk about CTF
  - 2017-04-06 Jesper Larsson - Hacking embedded Systems for fun and
    profit [video](https://youtu.be/XaHhoflKzAE)
  - 2017-04-06 Ben Stock - Large Scale Web Vulnerability Notification
    [video](https://youtu.be/m8c64fMi4DU)
  - 2017-01-31 Scott Helme - Hacking the Nissan Leaf
    [video](https://youtu.be/IsY0oc2_ZsQ)
  - 2017-01-31 Anders Rosdahl - Car Hacks 101, An overview of noticed
    automotive (in)security cases

## OWASP Gothenburg 2016

  - 2016-11-24 Lucas Lundgren and Neil Hindocha – LIGHT WEIGHT
    PROTOCOL\! SERIOUS EQUIPMENT\! CRITICAL IMPLICATIONS\!
    [video](https://youtu.be/A3wmH2Rd2K0)
  - 2016-11-24 Pierre Pavlidès – Overview of some automotive RKE systems
    [video](https://youtu.be/oK4OJJGIkYA)
  - 2016-11-24 Marielle Eide – The new General Data Protection
    Regulation – Are you ready [video](https://youtu.be/4-Zw6v2CnPE)
  - 2016-11-24 Janne Haldesten: Please hold, your call is being rerouted
    - Vulnerabilities in the SS7 protocol
    [video](https://youtu.be/uk348DnT9mI)
  - 2016-11-24 Avi Douglen – Passwords, Rehashed All Over Again
    [video](https://youtu.be/h80rIJOjdgA)
  - 2016-10-20 Filip Kälebo - Advanced traffic obfuscation made easy
    [video](https://youtu.be/VIdgt6XRPVE)
  - 2016-10-20 Daniel Hausknecht Content Security Policy - The silver
    bullet without silver [video](https://youtu.be/ItfXY_imvMg)
  - 2016-10-20 Joachim Strömbergson - Leakage, Side Channels and
    Exfiltration in Computer Systems
    [video](https://youtu.be/9gI0DW7VDfA)
  - 2016-06-09 Tero Hänninen - Enterprise threat hunting; cheap, fun and
    effective\! [video](https://youtu.be/8T1VdDsrYcc)
  - 2016-06-09 Johanna Abrahamsson - Incident detection for free\!
    [video](https://youtu.be/5R-DisNSccE)
  - 2016-03-22 Lars Andrén - Source Code Analysis of Web Frameworks
    [video](https://youtu.be/TuqTIw3iauk)
  - 2016-03-22 Lars Andrén - What is static code analysis
    (SCA)[video](https://youtu.be/GY7MWbdkdas)

**2016-03-22 - Static code analysis for the masses**

We have been trying to put together an event on static code analysis for
ages so naturally we jumped at the opportunity when Lars approached us.
The only question was how to find a matching speaker for slot number
two? Discussing the setup with Lars, we soon realized we needed no
second speaker - Lars had material for more than one event on his own.
This is going to be an epic evening\! The goal for the session is to
give the participants enough knowledge to be able to determine what kind
of tool as best suitable for their own projects. We will end the evening
with a hands-on workshop where the theories from the evening will be
used in practice. Tonights sponsor is ÅF - once again we will meet at
their great office at Grafiska vägen 2.

Who is Lars Andrén? I am a software engineer by education and work,
currently working at security startup Keypasco in Gothenburg. Three
intense years of my life was spent developing the SCA "CodeSecure" at
the company Armorize in Taipei, Taiwan ROC. Most of my time was spent
with the core analyzer, which doesn't make me a bona fide security
expert, but does give me a unique insight in the workings of SCA tools.
When I don't scan source code I paint Warhammer models that I less and
less frequently have time to play with.

Preparations for the workshop Download and install Eclipse Helios
<https://eclipse.org/downloads/packages/release/helios/sr2> Download and
install OWASP LAPSE+ LAPSE+ can be found here
<https://storage.googleapis.com/google-code-archive-downloads/v2/code.google.com/lapse-plus/LapsePlus_2.8.1.jar>
Just copy it to the plugins folder

## OWASP Gothenburg 2015

  - 2015-12-08 Mario Heiderich - An Abusive Relationship with AngularJS
    – About the Security Adventures with the "Super-Hero" Framework
    [video](https://youtu.be/Z6CKc--p498)
  - 2015-12-08 Marie Moe - Unpatchable - Living with a vulnerable
    implanted device
    [video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ffpkFvRZWB8)
  - 2015-12-08 Martin Johns - Your Scripts in My Page - What Could
    Possibly Go Wrong?
    [video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=fILLsFDkkuQ)
  - 2015-12-08 Michele Orrù - Dark FairyTales from a Phisherman (Vol.
    III) [video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8DJKp7nKAes)
  - 2015-10-20 Mattias Jidhage - [Going dark
    (grey)](Media:GoingGrey.pdf "wikilink")
    [video](https://youtu.be/ercZOphipRw)
  - 2015-10-20 Jonas Magazinius - Mac Hack Backup Attack
    [video](https://youtu.be/3KQMFR7Dv3M)
  - 2015-10-20 Mikael Falkvidd - [Livepatching the linux
    kernel](Media:Linux_kernel_live_patching.pdf "wikilink")
    [video](https://youtu.be/zy0R_S2raSM)
  - 2015-10-20 Fredrik Strömberg - [An introduction to
    QubesOS](Media:Qubes.pdf "wikilink")
    [video](https://youtu.be/oDR6VyzimPQ)
  - 2015-10-20 Anders Rosdahl - [Hands on with wifi
    security](Media:Hands-on_with_wifi_security_publish.pdf "wikilink")
    [video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=FkCb6VORZj4)
  - 2015-10-20 Viktor Hedberg - OWASP Security Shepherd
    [video](https://youtu.be/iKPFCO1qqb8)
  - 2015-10-20 Mikael Wecksten - [Introduction to Android app security
    review](Media:Android_sec.pdf "wikilink")
    [video](https://youtu.be/Vua9Z_8aESA)
  - 2015-10-20 Peter Gullberg - [TrustZone, TEE and mobile
    security](Media:OWASP_Security_Tapas_-_TrustZone,_TEE_and_Mobile_Security_final.pdf "wikilink")
    [video](https://youtu.be/NSBSgpD_9kw)
  - 2015-04-16 Adde Lindh: [Defender
    Economics](Media:DefenderEconomics.pdf "wikilink")
  - 2015-04-16 Michael Boman: [From Malware Analysis to Indications of
    Compromise](Media:_From_Malware_Analysis_to_Indications_of_Compromise.pdf "wikilink")
  - 2015-03-19 Georg Koppen and Philipp Winter: [Surfing safely over the
    Tor anonymity
    network](Media:Winter_Koppen_Tor_OWASP_20150319.pdf "wikilink")
    [Video: Relays](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bmmAFiqOgks) [Video:
    TorBrowser](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=s7vb_mjJn2M) [Video:
    Questions and Answers](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=UhWhlm0SB-U)

**2015-12-08 - OWASP Gothenburg Day** See
<https://www.owasp.org/index.php/OWASP_Gothenburg_Day_2015>

**2015-10-20 - Security Tapas**

While preparing for OWASP Gothenburg Day we realised we need something
that is quite the opposite of a giant all-day event with international
speakers. We need a small and cosy down-to-earth session with local
speakers. Like a hackathon but with some kind of agenda. Small
demonstrations, primers on a subject or technology, a lightning talk or
even a small hands on workshop. To make room for a lot of people we keep
them short, aiming for 15-20 minutes for presentations with some
additional room for workshops. OWASP will open up the floor, while you,
our community, sets the agenda and take place on stage. Thanks to our
sponsor ÅF we'll have a cool venue on the 16th floor and something to
eat and drink. Pls, send us a short title, your suggested time slot size
in minutes and whether this is a workshop or not (defined by the fact
that participants will require to bring some kind of equipment and will
be expected to perform some kind of activity) to
mattias.jidhage@owasp.org OR let us know through the ticket registration
form. You are of course very welcome to attend even if you don't have
something to present.

**Going dark - Mattias Jidhage**

**Mac Hack Backup Attack - Jonas Magazinius**

**Livepatching the linux kernel - Mikael Falkvidd**

**An introduction to QubesOS - Fredrik Strömberg**

**Hands on with wifi security - Anders Rosdahl**

**OWASP Security Shepherd - Viktor Hedberg**

**Introduction to Android app security review - Mikael Wecksten**

**TrustZone, TEE and mobile security - Peter Gullberg**

*' 2015-04-15 - D-FENS*' Let's talk defense. Offense might be a bit more
fun (admit it - there is a small evil mini-me inside all of us that
wants nothing but wielding the mighty power of the hack that ruled them
all) but let's face it, there are only so many wrongdoing organisations
with world domination aspirations that will hire you to develop attacks
on company time. For most of us that wants a paycheck within security,
defence is on the menu. So, how should we effectively use our company’s
sparse resources to make it harder for an attacker to breach our
defenses and when that inevitably happens anyway; how do we find the bad
code and remove it? The event is sponsored by Omegapoint, so we wish to
thank them in advance for food, drinks and the venue\! The event will be
held in English\!

*Agenda*

17:30 Event starts with a light snack and drink.

18:00 A word from our sponsor Omegapoint and a Community update

18:15 Defender economics

19:00 Short break

19:05 Search and destroy

19:50 Coming events

20:00 Beer, snacks and some serious security live chat

Approx. 21:00 Event ends

Speaker bios and abstracts

**Andreas Lindh - Defender Economics**

There are a lot of preconceptions about defense, the most prevalent one
probably the “defenders dilemma” in which it is stated that an attacker
only needs to find one weakness to compromise a network while a defender
needs to defend all of them. While this may be true in a technical
sense, things become a lot more complicated once you apply real world
considerations. Preconceptions like this are often the foundation on
which risk management and ultimately defense strategies are based,
something that has led to a number of false but generally accepted
assumptions about attackers and their capabilities, and how to defend
against them. This talk will discuss the capabilities, and more
importantly the limitations, of different types of attackers. Using the
ancient wisdom of the Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles, the speaker will
explain how knowledge of an attacker’s limitations can be leveraged to
raise the cost of attack, something that will tip the scale in the
defenders favor. The speaker will also explain how different defensive
measures will affect different types of attackers, how they are likely
to react to them, and in the end how to get them to hopefully move on to
another target.

Andreas Lindh (@addelindh) is a security analyst and engineer working
for I Secure Sweden in Gothenburg, Sweden. He specializes in threat &
vulnerability analysis, intrusion detection and generally making his
clients more secure. When he's not dissecting threats or kicking some
intruder off a network somewhere, he likes to write crappy Python code
and make bad puns on Twitter. Andreas has previously presented his work
at, among others, Black Hat USA, Virus Bulletin and 44Con.

**Michael Boman - Search and Destroy the unknown**

What do you do after realizing that you have been infected by a
previously unknown sample that your antimalware vendor failed to detect,
or you are unsure that you have up-to-date antimalware products on all
systems in your environment? Perhaps you are not able to install
antimalware on some endpoints due to regulatory restrictions. So how do
you go about to detect malware that hasn’t been detected by your
antimalware software? Learn how you can make use of the sources of
detection you already have, like your firewall logs, to detect unknown
threats on your network and help you locate and extract the malicious
software causing the issue. Once you got your hands on a sample you can
analyze it for artifacts the malware creates. Those artifacts, called
Indicators of Compromise (IOC), can be used to detect additional malware
infections on your SMB or Enterprise network using tools you might
already have or can easily be acquired freely from the internet.

Michael Boman (@mboman) is a senior malware analyst at the Malware
Research Institute and has been presenting at several large security
conferences including 44CON and DEEPSEC in the recent years about
malware research, everything from finding malware samples to analyze
suspected files at speed and on budget. Michael has been interested in
malicious software since he got his own machine infected even though he
followed all the best practices having his computer up-to-date with both
patches and antimalware software. The fact that the only thing that
notified him about the infection was the built-in Windows firewall
asking if it was OK to open a port for a piece of executable. And the
rest, as they say, is history. Malware Research Institute is an
organization that promotes malware research, tools and techniques for
aspiring and seasoned malware analysts. Malware Research Institute has a
blog where they publish interesting resources for malware researchers
over at <http://blog.malwareresearch.institute>.

**2015-03-20 - Philipp and Georg's slides available**

Tor presentation slides: [Surfing safely over the Tor anonymity
network](Media:Winter_Koppen_Tor_OWASP_20150319.pdf "wikilink")

'''2015-03-11 - Strengths and weaknesses of Tor, the white knight of
internet anonymity '''

"For those interested in online anonymity there are lots of tools
available and Tor is one of the most frequently used. How does it work,
how do you use it safely, and what are the risks? Is it possible to
express your opinions anonymously on the internet today or can well
funded actors circumvent the anonymity that Tor provides and find your
true identity? What is the current status of the anonymity provided and
what is being done to prevent current and future attacks on Tor?

To answer those and other questions regarding Tor we have invited Georg
Koppen and Philipp Winter from the Tor Project to join us on Thursday,
March 19. Be sure to book your seat immediately.

Who's this 'Tor', anyway? Tor is an overlay network that enables people
to use the Internet anonymously. We give a brief overview of how Tor
works and then focus on how Tor can be used safely. In particular, we
talk about the problem of malicious exit relays, how they can be a
problem for Tor users, and how the Tor Project deals with them. Next, we
talk about Tor Browser, The Tor Project's Firefox fork. Tor Browser
protects against a number of (deanonymization) attacks that are not
prevented by Firefox or Chrome. The goal of this talk is to show how Tor
can be used safely for Web surfing and to correct common
misunderstandings.

**Georg Koppen** Works for The Tor Project on the Tor Browser,
Torbutton, and Tor's build automation. He's also the main developer
behind Tor's effort to create deterministic builds.

**Phillipp Winter** Works for The Tor Project on research related to
malicious exit relays and censorship circumvention. He is the main
developer of ScrambleSuit, a polymorphic network traffic obfuscation
protocol that's used by Tor.

Agenda 17:30 Event starts with a light snack and drink.

18:00 A word from our sponsors TeliaSonera & Mullvad and a Community
update

18:15 Surfing safely over the Tor network, part 1

18:55 Short break

19:00 Surfing safely over the Tor network, part 2

19:40 Coming events

19:50 Beer, snacks and some serious security live chat

Approx. 21:00 Event ends

## OWASP Gothenburg 2014

  - 2014-12-04 Jonas Magazinius
    [Internetdagarna-Its.all.about.the.cookie](Media:Internetdagarna-Its.all.about.the.cookie.odp "wikilink")
    - [video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=C7kjwqUTh3A)
  - 2014-12-04 Johan Rydberg Möller [Modems, ISPs & the
    media](Media:Modems,_ISPs_&_the_media.pptx "wikilink") -
    [video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vrJ_U8HFJEc)
  - 2014-04-24 Dagfinn Övstrud [Privacy by Design @
    Västtrafik](Media:OWASP_Dagfinn_final.pdf "wikilink")
  - 2014-04-24 Jan Wellergård [Privacy by
    Design](Media:Privacy_by_Design_v5.pptx‎ "wikilink")
  - 2014-02-18 Klas Lindfors [One time
    passwords](Media:Klas_otp_OWASPgbg20140219.pdf‎ "wikilink") -
    [video](http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ORXDPNyXM-4)
  - 2014-02-18 Per Thorsheim [(Almost) everything about passwords that
    OWASP won't teach
    you](Media:\(Almost\)_everything_about_passwords_that_OWASP_OWASPGbg_20140218_Per_Thorsheim.pdf‎ "wikilink")
    - [video](http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=dc-bF2CU0Xo)

**2014-11-13 - Hacking unleashed**

There seems to be loads of networking equipment out there being in a
quite sad state from a security perspective. Yet people rely on them for
everyday business and home networking. We're talking, of course, about
routers and dongles. OWASP Göteborg will therefore dedicate this event
to inform about the insecurity of such devices. We have invited security
experts Adde Lindh and Johan Rydberg Möller to guide you through the
evening.

2014-12-04 is the evening you all have been waiting for the entire
autumn. Welcome to an evening that you'll never forget.

The event is sponsored by Omegapoint, so we wish to thank them in
advance for food, drinks and the venue\! The event will be held in
English except where noted

Link to
[eventbrite](https://www.eventbrite.com/e/hacking-unleashed-tickets-14191957527)

Agenda 17:30 Event starts with a light snack and drink.

18:00 A word from our sponsor Omegapoint. Community update

18:15 Johan Rydberg Möller - Modems, ISPs and the Media - How the Comhem
vulnerability could have been handled, and what happened instead \[Talk
held in Swedish. Slides in English\]

19:00 Short break

19:05 Adde Lindh / ISecure Sweden AB - Attacking mobile broadband
modules like a criminal would \[BlackHat talk\] **CANCELLED**

19:50 Coming events

20:00 Beer, snacks and some serious security live chat

Approx. 21:00 Event ends

Speaker bios and abstracts

**Johan Rydberg Möller**

On the 31st of October this year Dagens Nyheter published an article
which prompted Post- och Telestyrelsen to begin an investigation of the
internet provider Comhem with suspicions of breaches against the
electronic communications law. What prompted DN to publish the article
was the disclosure of a serious vulnerability in the Netgear modems that
Comhem supply their customers whith, a vulnerability that had gone
unpatched for over fourteen months since Comhem was first made aware of
the issue. I was the one who first brought Comhems attention to the
vulnerability and I worked with DNs reporter in an effort to shed light
on the problem, after my correspondence with Comhem did not yield any
results. In this talk I will discuss and demonstrate the vulnerability,
talk briefly about responsible disclure and share my experience working
with the media in order to force change through public opinion, when
nothing else works.

Johan Rydberg Möller is a security specialist at Omegapoint, focused
mainly on web security and penetration testing. He is a founder of the
security podcast Säkerhetspodcasten and occassionally appears in the
news discussing security issues

**Adde Lindh**

While there has certainly been some interesting research into the
security of mobile broadband modems, or "dongles," in the past, it has
almost exclusively focused on novel attacks such as buffer overflows
over text message, attacks on the device's file system, and other
advanced approaches. The level of skill and effort required to execute
such an attack reduces the potential number of attackers, but there are
easier ways to monetize from attacking these devices too.

This talk will focus on some more likely scenarios; web-based attacks
that are not that hard to pull off but that will allow the attacker to
cash in without too much effort. The speaker will demonstrate how to
profit, steal sensitive information, and establish a persistent hold on
the devices, and also how a seemingly modest attack could be used as
part of a more advanced attack chain. There will also be an analysis of
why it is easy being an Internet criminal, and how it will continue to
be so unless drastic changes are made to how we approach and implement
new consumer technology.

Oh, and there will be demos.

Andreas Lindh is a security analyst and engineer working for ISecure
Sweden. In his day job, he does a wide variety of defensive security
work such as threat analysis, incident detection and response, and
database security for a number of large clients in the private and
public sector. In his spare time, he does web application and browser
security research, mainly focused on consumer security. He also likes
long walks on the Internet and romantic evenings in front of a Python
IDE.

**2014-05-20 - Jans och Dagfinns slides tillgängliga**

Jans slides: [Privacy by
Design](Media:Privacy_by_Design_v5.pptx‎ "wikilink")

Dagfinns slides: [Privacy by Design @
Västtrafik](Media:OWASP_Dagfinn_final.pdf "wikilink")

**2014-04-03 - Privacy by design**

OWASP Göteborg gör en djupdykning i området privacy den 24e april.
Internet och sociala nätverk har bidragit till en ökat intresse för
privacy. Företag som måste eller vill skydda sina användares data måste
fatta privacybeslut redan under designfasen av utvecklingsarbetet. Vi
tittar på vad Pricacy by Design innebär och tittar också på ett konkret
exempel på hur PoD-ideerna kan tillämpas. För att guida oss genom
kvällen har vi bjudit in Jan Wellergård från TeliaSonera och Dagfinn
Övstrud från Kentor. Sponsor är TeliaSonera och GIVETVIS kommer det bli
helt awesome\!

Länk till
[eventbrite](https://www.eventbrite.com/e/privacy-by-design-tickets-11189308523)

*Eventet kommer hållas på engelska*

Agenda

17:30 Kvällen inleds med macka och dricka

18:00 Community update + vår sponsor
[TeliaSonera](http://www.teliasonera.com/sv/) säger ett par väl valda
ord. Tack för sponset\!

18:15 \[Jan Wellergård/TeliaSonera\] - Privacy by design

19:00 Bensträckare

19:05 \[Dagfinn Övstrud/Kentor\] Privacy by design hos Västtrafik

20:00 Öl, snacks och livechat om säkerhet

ca 21:00 Eventet avslutas

Abstract och talarbio

**Jan Wellergård**

What is privacy by design and is it really a new requirement? Privacy
matters and protecting personal data is a legal obligation since late
90s. However, one needs a structured way to achieve compliance. It needs
to be addressed already in Design.

Jan Wellergård is the Personal Data Representative (sv.
Personuppgiftsombud) for TeliaSonera’s Swedish entities. He is
monitoring TeliaSonera’s compliance and supporting the business in
privacy matters. Jan is also the Security Director for Group Technology
– IT Support systems working with information security management

**Dagfinn Övstrud**

This talk will introduce and discuss selected relevant systems from the
vast systems flora at Västtrafik, on how they deal with handling and
protecting privacy data. It will also cover some general infrastructure
design principles, and challenges faced in general and as a company in
the public sector.

Dagfinn is an infrastructure architect with a special interest in the
areas of security, availability and performance. Mostly
Microsoft-related, but nobody's perfect. He worked in Västtrafik's IT
department from 2008 to 2014, when he joined Kentor AB as a consultant.
He has a life too, and in addition to regular mainstream hobbies and
interests he has recently picked up his guitar and is in the process of
writing and recording his very own independent solo album in the genre
of melodic death metal \\m/ \!

*' 2014-02-19 - Klas och Pers slides tillgängliga*'

Klas slides: [One time
passwords](Media:Klas_otp_OWASPgbg20140219.pdf‎ "wikilink")

Pers slides: [(Almost) everything about passwords that OWASP won't teach
you](Media:\(Almost\)_everything_about_passwords_that_OWASP_OWASPGbg_20140218_Per_Thorsheim.pdf‎ "wikilink")

*' 2014-01-29 - Autentisering, hur svårt kan det va?*'

OWASP Göteborg kör tema autentisering den 18e februari och har bjudit in
Per Thorsheim, grundare av Passwords-konferensen, och Klas Lindfors från
Yubico. Magnus Almgren från Data- och Informationsteknik vid Chalmers
kommer tala kort om RAID2014, som i höst kommer hållas i Göteborg i
Chalmers regi. Med andra ord, en mycket spännande agenda, som vanligt\!
Kvällens sponsor är Ajilon Consultants AB.

Länk till [eventbrite](https://owaspgbg-authentication.eventbrite.com)

*Eventet kommer hållas på engelska*

Preliminär agenda

17:30 Kvällen inleds med macka och dricka.

18:00 Community update + vår sponsor [Ajilon
Consultants](http://www.ajilonconsultants.se/) säger ett par väl valda
ord. Tack för sponset\!

18:10 \[Klas Lindfors/Yubico\] - OTP and U2F

19:00 Paus

19:10 \[Per Thorsheim/Stricture Consulting Group, God Praksis AS\] -
(Almost) everything about passwords that OWASP won't teach you

20:00 Öl, snacks och livechat om säkerhet

Ca 21:00 Eventet slutar

Abstract och talarbio

**Klas Lindfors**

One time passwords are being deployed by larger websites including
Google, Facebook, GitHub, LinkedIn etc but they have their ups and
downs. What type of OTP should you use; the YubiKey OTP, OATH HOTP, or
OATH TOTP? How would you validate the OTP; building your own server and
protecting the secrets, or rely on a cloud service like Yubico's
YubiCloud or VeriSign VIP? The talk will also cover the future of
two-factor authentication with the FIDO Universal 2nd Factor (U2F)
protocol.

Klas Lindfors is a software developer at Yubico, working with one time
passwords at all layers: firmware, personalization & validation.

**Per Thorsheim**

OWASP has some wonderful guidelines on sending, storing and resetting
passwords. However there are still challenges that cannot be addressed
through technical measures, they need to be addressed by humans, and not
just developers. Through color & font selections, association elements,
password managers, human pattern analysis and more, this talk will
discuss what we are still doing wrong, the risks associated with bad
passwords, and give some advice on what we need to do in order to
improve our online security.

Per Thorsheim is the founder & main organizer of the Passwords
conferences (PasswordsCon.org), a conference fully dedicated to
passwords & PINs. He's been working, examining, playing, dreaming and
discusssing passwords for more than 14 years, and is still going strong.
He publicly disclosed the hacking of Linkedin in june 2012, and has been
interviewed and quoted around the world on his excessive interest in
passwords. During daytime he tries to solve challenges for his customers
through security awareness training & security advisory services. Some
say he's good at explaining advanced topics to regular humans. He is
certified CISA, CISM and CISSP-ISSAP.

## OWASP Gothenburg 2013

  - 2013-11-30 Joachim Strömbergsson och Peter Magnusson [SSL für
    alle](Media:OWASP_SSL_20131128_preso.pdf "wikilink") -
    [video1](http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=UR5S-OtHUYg)
    [video2](http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7GJ0Z6EjDVQ)
  - 2013-10-24 Ulf Larson [OWASP topp tio 2013 with WebGoat and
    ZAP](Media:OWASP_Topp_tio_Ulf_Larson_20131010.pdf‎ "wikilink")
  - 2013-10-24 Jonas Magazinus [Crossing origins by crossing
    formats](Media:Crossing.Origins.by.Crossing.Formats-Jonas.Magazinius-OWASP-131010.pptx "wikilink")
  - 2013-04-29 Mario Heiderich [The innerHTML
    Apocalypse](http://www.slideshare.net/x00mario/the-innerhtml-apocalypse)
  - 2013-04-29 Mario Heiderich XSS from 1999 to 2013: The "Doctrine
    Classique" of Websecurity
  - 2013-01-31 Mattias Wecksten [IT-forensics and information
    security](Media:Mattias_wecksten_OWASPGBG_20130228.pdf "wikilink")
  - 2013-01-31 Rickard Bodfors [Don't touch that
    system](Media:Rikard_bodforss_OWASPGBG_20130228.pdf "wikilink")
  - 2013-01-31 Mårten Schionning [Incidents and
    forensics](Media:Morten_schionning_OWASPGPG_20130228.odp "wikilink")

*' 2013-11-30 - Peters och Joachims SSL für alle slides tillgängliga*'

Slides tillgängliga här: [SSL für
alle](Media:OWASP_SSL_20131128_preso.pdf "wikilink")

*' 2013-11-03 - SSL för alla*'

OWASP Göteborg presenterar stolt en helkväll om SSL/TLS och HTTPS den
28e november. Vi kommer denna gång vara i Omegapoints lokaler på
Rosenlundsgatan 3 och vi startar som vanligt med mackor och mingel
17:30.

Vi har denna gång två mycket intressanta och erfarna talare, Joachim
Strömbergson och Peter Magnusson. Båda med lång erfarenhet av
kryptoteknik och kryptoimplementationer. Vi tar fram stora spaden och
gräver fram detaljerna om SSL/TLS och HTTPS. De allra flesta kommer i
daglig kontakt med begreppen genom webbrowsern och vi har säkert alla
hört talas om någon av de lyckade attacker som utförts under senaste
år. Dags att gå till botten med det här\! Vad är SSL/TLS och HTTPS
egentligen, varför har vi problem, och kan vi lita på det framöver. I så
fall, varför?

Länk till [eventbrite](http://owaspgbg-ssl-2013.eventbrite.com/)

Preliminär agenda

17:30 Kvällen inleds med macka och dricka.

18:00 Community update + vår sponsor
[Omegapoint](http://www.omegapoint.se/) säger ett par väl valda ord.
Tack för sponset\!

18:10 Joachim Strömbergson

19:00 Paus

19:10 Peter Magnusson

19:50 Öl, snacks och livechat om säkerhet

Ca 21:00 Eventet slutar

Abstract

What is SSL/TLS and HTTPS? What security is it intended to provide? In
recent years the SSL/TLS and HTTPS technology has been had numerous
alerts on real world, practical crypto attacks, effectively unravelling
HTTPS security promises. What are these attacks, why do they work, and
how were the attacks combatted in SSL implementations?

**Joachim Strömbergson**

Joachim Strömbergson is a security expert at Secworks, a consultancy
founded by Joachim. By working as an advisor and educator, providing
analysis and implementations Joachim assists his customers in finding
the right security for their products and services. SSL and TLS in
embedded systems, Internet of Things and SCADA system security are
things Joachims battles during day time. On his spare time Joachim
implements ciphers and blogs about security at secworks.se

**Peter Magnusson**

Peter is a speaker in the Säkerhetspodcasten security podcast
(sakerhetspodcasten.se) and has a great interest in applied cryptography
and practical cryptographic attacks. Peter works as security consultant
at Omegapoint and specialize in application security.

**2013-10-24 - Ulfs och Jonas slides från senaste träffen tillgängliga**

Ulfs slides tillgängliga här: [OWASP topp tio 2013 with WebGoat and
ZAP](Media:OWASP_Topp_tio_Ulf_Larson_20131010.pdf‎ "wikilink")

Jonas slides tillgängliga här: [Crossing origins by crossing
formats](Media:Crossing.Origins.by.Crossing.Formats-Jonas.Magazinius-OWASP-131010.pptx "wikilink")

**2013-09-12 - Så där ja, nu kör vi igång år tre**

Hej Alla\!

Nu kör vi igång år tre\! Den tionde oktober startar vi upp med 2013-års
variant av vårt första event i augusti 2011. Topp tio 2013 har funnits
ute ett par månader nu och vi tänkte naturligtvis täcka upp detta. Vi
kommer blanda och ge från akademisk forskning i absoluta framkant,
senaste "topp tio"-listan, illustrerad med väl valda demonstrationer,
samt en introduktion till OWASP och OWASP Göteborg. Vi vill särskilt
välkomna de som inte varit hos oss förut, så om någon av Er erfarna
säkerhetsrävar känner nån som är intresserad men inte deltagit tidigare
får ni gärna tipsa dem. En grym kväll är ju faktiskt bara en
registrering på en maillista bort.

Länk till [eventbrite](http://owaspgbg-top10-2013-eorg.eventbrite.com/)

Preliminär agenda

17:30 Kvällen inleds med macka och dricka. Vår sponsor ([Star
Republic](http://www.starrepublic.com/)) säger ett par väl valda ord.
Tack för sponset\!

18:00 OWASP Göteborg - Community update + Det här är OWASP Göteborg

18:10 Ulf och Erik - OWASP topp tio 2013 + Demo

19:10 Paus

19:20 Jonas - Polyglot

20:00 Öl, snacks och livechat om säkerhet

Ca 21:00 Eventet slutar

Abstract

**Ulf och Erik**

We present the OWASP top ten list for 2013. The top ten list contains
the most serious application security risks. In the top of the list we
find SQL injection. Well known, but still going strong, due to the
potentially disastrous consequences a successful attack may have. In the
upper half of the list, we also find broken authentication and, of
course, Cross-Site Scripting. Among the newcomers to the list, we find
sensitive data exposure, and the use of components with known
vulnerabilities. In addition to presenting the list, we also demonstrate
some simple attacks.

**Jonas**

In a heterogeneous system like the web, information is exchanged between
components in versatile formats. A new breed of attacks is on the rise
that exploit the mismatch between the expected and provided content.
This paper focuses on the root cause of a large class of attacks:
polyglots. A polyglot is a program that is valid in multiple programming
languages. Polyglots allow multiple interpretation of the content,
providing a new space of attack vectors. We characterize what
constitutes a dangerous format in the web setting and identify
particularly dangerous formats, with PDF as the prime example. We
demonstrate that polyglot-based attacks on the web open up for insecure
communication across Internet origins. The paper presents novel attack
vectors that infiltrate the trusted origin by syntax injection across
multiple languages and by content smuggling of malicious payload that
appears formatted as benign content. The attacks lead to both
cross-domain leakage and cross-site request forgery. We perform a
systematic study of PDF-based injection and content smuggling attacks.
We evaluate the current practice in client/server content filtering and
PDF readers for polyglot-based attacks, and report on vulnerabilities in
the top 100 Alexa web sites. We identify five web sites to be vulnerable
to syntax injection attacks. Further, we have found two major enterprise
cloud storage services to be susceptible to content smuggling attacks.
Our recommendations for protective measures on server side, in browsers,
and in content interpreters (in particular, PDF readers) show how to
mitigate the attacks.

**2013-04-29 - OWASP Göteborg - An evening with Mario Heiderich**

Vi är stolta att presentera en helkväll med Mario Heiderich. Mario
kommer hålla två föredrag om Cross Site Scripting: ett om mXSS och ett
om hur XSS utvecklats genom historien. Kommer garanterat bli mycket,
mycket intressant\!

Länk till [eventbrite](http://owaspgbg-mario-xss-eorg.eventbrite.com/)

Vi tackar varmt vår sponsor Chalmers för käk och för att vi får använda
lokalen\!

**Eventet kommer hållas på engelska/The event will be held in its
entirety in English**

Preliminär agenda

17:30 Kvällen inleds med macka och dricka. Vår sponsor Chalmers säger
ett par väl valda ord

18:00 Community update

18:10 Mario Heiderich - The InnerHTML Apocalypse

18.45 Paus

19:00 Mario Heiderich - XSS from 1999 to 2013

19:45 Öl, snacks och livechat om säkerhet

Ca 21:00 Eventet slutar

Abstract och talarbio:

Mario Heiderich is founder of the German/UK pen-test outfit Cure53 and a
Microsoft security contractor. He focuses on HTML5, SVG security,
script-less attacks and believes XSS can be eradicated by using
JavaScript. Maybe. Some day. Actually quite soon. Mario invoked the
HTML5 security cheat-sheet, the Alexa Top 1x search engine Crawly and
several other projects. In the remaining time he delivers trainings and
security consultancy for larger German and international companies for
sweet sweet money and the simple minded fun in breaking things. Mario
has spoken on a large variety of international conferences - both
academic and industry-focused, co-authored two books, several academic
papers and doesn't see a problem in his one year old son having a tablet
already. There you have it.

The InnerHTML Apocalypse - How mXSS Attacks change everything we
believed we knew so far

This talk introduces and discusses a novel, mostly unpublished technique
to successfully attack websites that are applied with state-of-the-art
XSS protection. This attack labeled Mutation-XSS (mXSS) is capable of
bypassing high-end filter systems by utilizing the browser and its
unknown capabilities - every single f\*\*\*\*\* one of them. We analyzed
the type and number of high-profile websites and applications that are
affected by this kind of attack. Several live demos during the
presentation will share these impressions and help understanding, what
mXSS is, why mXSS is possible and why it is of importance for defenders
as well as professional attackers to understand and examine mXSS even
further. The talk wraps up several years of research on this field,
shows the abhorrent findings, discusses the consequences and delivers a
step-by-step guide on how to protect against this kind of mayhem - with
a strong focus on feasibility and scalability.

XSS from 1999 to 2013: The "Doctrine Classique" of Websecurity

XSS attacks were first documented about 15 years ago. Since then, the
attack technique has undergone an evolution, that resembles the classic
dramatic theory - including catastasis, heroism, villainy and
peripeteia.

Now, HTML and JavaScript enter the world of operating systems and the
XSS tragedy is on the verge of becoming a nightmare beyond human
control. The once harmless "alert" is now a black swan of code
execution, the phantom of the browser, Gretchen and Mephistopheles at
the same time.

This talk attempts to go back into the early past and unveil the causes
for XSS, point fingers at the true evil that made the Internet what it
is today, outline our mistakes and the general failure of the
fat-bellied websecurity community and try to leave the hope, that not
all will be lost in the realms of the WWW.

**2013-04-29 - Slides från OWASP Göteborg 2013-02-28 finns nu
tillgängliga**

Nu finns slides från vårt Februarievent tillgängliga här

Mattias slides: [IT-forensics and information
security](Media:Mattias_wecksten_OWASPGBG_20130228.pdf "wikilink")

Rikards slides: [Don't touch that
system](Media:Rikard_bodforss_OWASPGBG_20130228.pdf "wikilink")

Mortens slides: [Incidents and
forensics](Media:Morten_schionning_OWASPGPG_20130228.odp "wikilink")

**2013-01-31 - OWASP Göteborg - IT-forensik, 28e februari**

OWASP Göteborg drar igång våren med en spännande presentationskväll om
IT-forensik i samarbete med ISACA. Vi har tre talare på schemat och vi
lovar att det kommer bli en blandning ni inte kan motstå\!

Länk till [eventbrite](http://owaspgbg-it-forensics.eventbrite.com/)

Vi tackar varmt vår sponsor Omegapoint för käk och för att vi får
använda lokalen\!

**Eventet kommer hållas på engelska**

Prelimiär agenda:

17:30 Eventet öppnar. Mackor och dricka. Ett par ord från vår sponsor
Omegapoint

18:00 Community update

18:10 \[Morten Schiønning/TeliaSonera\] - Incidents and Forensics

18:50 Bensträckare

18:55 \[Rikard Bodforss/Omegapoint\] - Don't touch that system\!

19:35 Bensträckare \#2

19:50 \[Mattias Weckstén/Halmstad University\] - Entry level it-forensic
training from an academic point of view

20:30 Mingel, en öl eller två och lite snacks

Ca 21:00 Eventet avslutas

Abstract och talarbio

**Morten Schiønning**

As with most things in life, dealing with security incidents is
something you need to prepare and train for. Once a security incident
has been declared you will need to do a number of things simultaneously,
an essential part of which is the gathering of evidence to the facts.
There are lots of considerations to be made and usually a lot of people
to lead and/or coordinate. Understanding the risks and the pit-falls,
working disciplined, knowing the dos and don’ts and keeping a cool head
may very well save the day. Even of you as an incident handler do not do
the actual forensics, you need to know what happens, when and how, in
order to make the best of the possibilities you have - as you are always
at a disadvantage of the perpetrator.

I am a Senior Security Investigator at TeliaSonera CERT Coordination
Centre, I have my offices in Copenhagen, but TS-CERT serve the entire
TeliaSonera Group and fully owned companies in 17 countries. I have more
than 25 years of experience in working with IT and 12 of those have been
spent as a security professional. I have been half of that at DK\*CERT,
UNI-C, the CERT for the Danish education- and research network as well
as the general public and the rest in various functions at TeliaSonera.
I have also worked independently, doing forensics, for the Danish
Police, several news media and as a specialist for the Danish Judicial
system. I am a GIAC certified Forensics analyst and Incident Handler and
do most of the ‘hands-on’ disciplines within IT and Mobile Forensics as
well as penetration testing, security auditing and most, if not all
other aspects of IT security and physical security. I am not and do not
wish to be a public figure.

**Rikard Bodforss**

Understanding of how different acquisition methods affect the system is
important when examining the collected evidence and can be critical if
the case ends up in a court of law. Rikard will give a hands-on
demonstration of forensic artifacts from different routine tasks. The
demonstration will give a basic understanding of how delicate the system
is and why some acquisition methods leave a bigger footprint than
others.

Rikard Bodforss is a security advisor at Omegapoint in Gothenburg,
Sweden. He has over twenty years of experience from the IT industry and
most of that working with information- and IT-security. He has held
positions as Global Perimeter Protection Manager and Head of Forensics
within Volvo Group. Now he is working with clients from many different
industries like; critical public utilities (SCADA security), banking,
automotive, retail and trade. His area of expertise ranges from very
technical security, like forensics, to information security governance.
Rikard holds a CISSP and a CISA certification, and was awarded the ISACA
Thomas Fitzgerald Award in 2009 for acheiving the highest score in the
world on the CISA exam. He is a very popular speaker at national and
international conferences and promises to deliver a talk you do not want
to miss\! You can follow him on Twitter @rbodforss and listen to him (in
Swedish) at sakerhetspodcastem.se where he is a co-host.

'Mattias Weckstén

A short talk about the IT-forensic program at Halmstad university, our
view of the IT-forensic investigator, courses and skills taught and the
future of the trade. The talk will be concluded with an overview of a
selection of previous and current thesis projects.

Mattias is adjunct in computer engineering with a specialization in
it-forensics at Halmstad University. Teaching a multitude of technical
aspects of the trade of manual digital forensics. Promoting it-forensic
awareness through popular science in modern media.

## OWASP Gothenburg 2012

  - 2012-11-22 Fredrik Sjöström
    [Malware](Media:Fredrik_Sjostrom_Malware_OWASPGBG_20121122.pdf‎ "wikilink")
    [video](http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=dgwpjQXguso)
  - 2012-11-22 Robin Blokker
    [Penetrationstestning](Media:Robin_Blocker_Penetrationtesting_OWASPGBG_20121122.RobinBlokker.pdf "wikilink")
    [video](http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lilDGi3AgzE)
  - 2012-11-22 Michael Boman [Malware analysis as a
    hobby](Media:Michael_Boman_Mart_OWASPGBG_20121122.pdf‎ "wikilink")
    [video](http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Dth_mJEsGTo)
  - 2012-10-08 Mathias Jidhage och Rikard Bordfors [OWASP Hardware
    Hacking Part 1 -
    GoodFet](Media:OWASP-Hardware-Hacking-Part1.pptx‎ "wikilink")
    [video](http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=sPx0JWOIcus)
  - 2012-07-04 Mikko Saario [3 från 1 - hybrid environments and
    agile](Media:Mikko_Saario_3_from_1_hybrid_agile_OWASP_Gbg_20120906.pdf‎ "wikilink")
  - 2012-07-04 Ulf Larson [Securing Mobile
    Applications](Media:Securing_mobile_applications_OWASP_Gbg_20120906.pdf "wikilink")
  - 2012-04-26 Erlend Oftedal [Cross domain communication and browser
    security
    features](http://eoftedal.github.com/CrossDomainAndBrowserSecurity/#1)
  - 2012-04-26 Combitech [Security assessment of the E-valg
    system](Media:OWASP_Evalg_2012-04-26.ppt‎ "wikilink")
  - 2012-03-03 Jim @Manicode Manico [JManico - Developer Top
    Ten](Media:Manico_Developer_Top_Ten_Core_Controls_v4.1.ppt.zip "wikilink")

**2012-10-29 - OWASP Göteborg - Pentest och Malware, 22e november**

*Uppdatering 2012-12-05*

Slides finns nu tillgängliga, de finns under varje talares bio nedan.

Den 22e november kör vi vårt novemberevent. Kvällens tema är pentestning
och malware, vi har tre talare på detta event och det är garanterat nåt
ni inte vill missa. Så boka er plats redan nu på
[eventbrite](http://owaspgbg-pentest-malware.eventbrite.com/). Denna
gång är vår sponsor TeliaSonera och vi kommer hålla eventet i deras
lokaler i Gårda. Adressinformation finns i eventbrite-länken.

Prelimiär agenda:

17:30 Eventet öppnar. Mackor och dricka. Ett par ord från vår sponsor
TeliaSonera

18:00 Community update

18:10 \[Michael Boman/2Secure\] - Malwareanalys som en hobby

18:50 Bensträckare

18:55 \[Robin Blokker/FRA\] - Penetrationstestning

19:35 Bensträckare \#2

19:50 \[Fredrik Sjöstrand/FRA\] - Malware

20:30 Mingel, en öl eller två och lite snacks

Ca 21:00 Eventet avslutas

21:30 Eventet avslutas en gång till. Nu på allvar.

Abstract och talarbio

*Michael Boman*

Som pappa till fem barn så har man varken tid eller pengar, men ändå
ville jag inte lägga ner min hobby som malware-forskare. Lösningen heter
automatisering, och jag tänkte förklara hur det fungerar. För tillfället
så analyserar jag drygt 1 misstänkt virus/minuten, men det kan skalas
upp i takt med hårdvara (så gott som linjär skalning

Michael Boman arbetar som säkerhetskonsult för 2Secure och analyserar
skadlig kod som hobby. Michael har över 10 års erfarenhet av
säkerhetstestning av applikationer och infrastruktur. Michael är
passionerad om data-säkerhet och gör sitt bästa för att fler skall göra
rätt från början. Michael driver webbsidan
[michaelboman.org](http://michaelboman.org) där delar där med sig sina
kunskaper och erfarenheter när han kan.

Michaels slides: [Malware analysis as a
hobby](Media:Michael_Boman_Mart_OWASPGBG_20121122.pdf‎ "wikilink")

*Robin Blokker*

All penetrationstestning utförs enligt "Best effort" principen med
begränsade resurser. Vad är en rimlig spelplan för ett test? Vilka
metoder är effektiva och vad letar man efter? Vilka gränser måste
respekteras och vilka bör man som sakkunnig expert utforska eller
ignorera? Hur ser man till att arbetet får maximal avkastning och att
resultaten genererar verklig säkerhet i slutändan?

Robin Blokker är säkerhetsspecialist vid FRA:s enhet för
nätverkssäkerhet var han arbetar med granskningar och
penetrationstester av svenska myndigheters system. Robins tekniska
hemmaplan är webbsäkerhet och klient-attacker. Han betraktar sig själv
som en välintegrerad hemvandrare och en aktiv del av den offentliga
säkerhetsgemenskapen var han övar sig i psykologisk krigsföring och
frisbeegolf.

Robins slides:
[Penetrationstestning](Media:Robin_Blocker_Penetrationtesting_OWASPGBG_20121122.RobinBlokker.pdf "wikilink")

*Fredrik Sjöstrand*

Malware har gått ifrån att vara ett simpelt busstreck till att tömma
ditt bankkonto, ta alla dina inloggningsuppgifter och aktivt försvåra
analys med anti-debug, anti-vm och obfuskering. Hur kan det se ut? Vad
händer? Framtid?

Fredrik Sjöström arbetar som reverse engineer vid FRAs
informationssäkerhetsavdelning där han arbetar med att köra kod
baklänges. Fokus ligger på malware analys och att hitta metoder för
detektering. De lediga stunder som inte tillbringas i en debugger
tillägnas Premier League och Chelsea FC.

Fredriks slides:
[Malware](Media:Fredrik_Sjostrom_Malware_OWASPGBG_20121122.pdf‎ "wikilink")

**2012-10-08 - OWASP Göteborg - Introduction to Hardware Hacking part 1,
25:e Oktober, 2012**

*Uppdatering 2012-10-29*

Nu finns slides tillgängliga [OWASP Hardware Hacking Part
1](Media:OWASP-Hardware-Hacking-Part1.pptx‎ "wikilink"). Dessutom finns
en video från spektaklet. Den hittar ni [här](http://t.co/9VsMeAGW).

*Ursprungspost 2010-10-08*

Torsdag 25e oktober slår OWASP Göteborg och Omegapoint upp sina portar
för en helkväll med hårdvarusnickeri\! Till vårt stora nöje blev
eventet fullbokat i princip så fort biljetterna släpptes. Ni som är
intresserade men som inte fick plats kan anmäla ert intresse till
[Mattias Jidhage](mailto:mattias.jidhage@owasp.org). Om tillräckligt
många är intresserade finns det inget som hindrar att vi kör fler
omgångar.

Under kvällen så kommer vi kika lite på ytmontering generellt och mer
specifikt på GoodFET (som är kvällens mål). Om man nu vill bygga något
elektroniskt, hur gör man då? Och det här med ytmontering - kan man
verkligen göra det hemma? Och varför? Vad skall man egentligen ha en
GoodFET till? Vad finns det mer för intressanta säkerhetsrelaterade
hårdvaruprojekt man kan pilla med? Din GoodFET får du ta med dig hem.

**2012-09-13 - Slides från OWASP Göteborg 2012-09-06 finns nu
tillgängliga**

Nu finns slides från vårt september-event tillgängliga. Varsågoda\!

Mikko Saario - [3 från 1 - hybrid environments and
agile](Media:Mikko_Saario_3_from_1_hybrid_agile_OWASP_Gbg_20120906.pdf‎ "wikilink")

Ulf Larson - [Securing Mobile
Applications](Media:Securing_mobile_applications_OWASP_Gbg_20120906.pdf "wikilink")

**2012-07-04 - Nästa event spikat till torsdag den 6e september - tema
mobile security**

Torsdagen den 6e april slår vi upp portarna till OWASP Göteborgs första
event på år två\! Denna gång kommer temat vara mobilsäkerhet och vi har
övertalat [Mikko Saario](https://www.linkedin.com/in/mikkosaario),
Senior Security Manager vid Nokia att komma och köra en 3-från-1 om
mobilsäkerhet och agil säkerhet. Dessutom kommer Ulf Larson att berätta
kortfattat om vad OWASP kan erbjuda mobilutvecklare. Sponsor för detta
event är Adecco IT Konsult. Tusen tack till Adecco IT Konsult för
detta\!

Denna gång kommer eventet att hållas hos Adecco IT Konsult, Maskingatan
5, 417 64 Göteborg
[Eventbrite](https://owaspgbg-mobilesec.eventbrite.com/).

Mikko kommer hålla sina presentationer på engelska och det är troligt
att Ulf också gör så. Denna gång blir också demointensiv och
förhoppningsvis håller sig demodjävulen på behörigt avstånd...

Preliminär agenda:

17:30 Eventet öppnar. Mackor och dricka. Ett par ord från vår sponsor
Adecco IT Konsult

18:00 Community update

18:10 Securing mobile applications. What can OWASP offer, + a quick look
at iGoat

18:40 Bensträckare

18:45 3-från-1 presentation från Mikko Saario (hybrid environments and
security + agile development)

20:10 Mingel, en öl eller två och lite snacks

Ca 21:00 Eventet avslutas

**Abstracts**

*Securing Mobile applications. What can OWASP offer ...*

In this talk, we look at some common security pitfalls in mobile
application development. We also take a peek inside the iGoat training
application, an OWASP project aimed at educating mobile developers in
secure programming. Finally, we look briefly on how to you can assess
the security of your backend by using burp proxy to intercept and modify
your mobile phone’s traffic in transit.

*3-from-1 Mikko Saario*

In the first part of the talk, Mikko will take a quick look at various
hybrid environments available for ‘mobile’ app developers – showing how
the ‘desktop web’ and ‘mobile web’ are converging and what kind of
fundamental security mechanisms do or do not exist in them to protect
the user. The second part will take a look at recent developments in the
web standards bridging these two worlds even closer to each other than
ever before – perhaps even making native apps … redundant at some point?
Finally, switching to something completely different, Mikko will share
his experiences working with an agile team and helping them build more
secure products. The talks are accompanied with small demos and use
cases to show some of the discussed topics in real life.

**2012-06-01 - Slides från OWASP Göteborg 2012-04-26 nu tillgängliga**

Nu finns slides från vårt april-event tillgängliga. Nu vet ni alltså vad
ni skall göra under semestern. Varsågoda\!

Erlend Oftedal - [Cross domain communication and browser security
features](http://eoftedal.github.com/CrossDomainAndBrowserSecurity/#1)

Combitech - [Security assessment of the E-valg
system](Media:OWASP_Evalg_2012-04-26.ppt‎ "wikilink")

**2012-03-25 - Jim Manico's slides tillgängliga**

Här kommer nu länken till Jim Manico's slides från föredraget den 22e.
Håll till godo\! [JManico - Developer Top
Ten](Media:Manico_Developer_Top_Ten_Core_Controls_v4.1.ppt.zip "wikilink")

**2012-03-03 - Nästa officiella event spikat till torsdag den 26e
april**

Torsdagen den 26e april slår vi upp portarna OWASP Göteborgs sista event
före sommaren. Efter detta går vi in i sommardimman och space:ar ut ett
par månader innan vi återigen tar nya tag inför hösten. Sponsor för
detta event är [Combitech](http://www.combitech.se/). Tusen tack till
Combitech för detta\!

Temat för aprileventet är Norge\! Vi får besök av Erlend Oftedal
(@webtonull) som skall berätta om *Cross domain communication and
browser security features*. Rekommenderad lyssning för er som använder
webbläsare. Vi har också ett team från Combitech som skall berätta om
säkerhetsarbetet bakom framtagningen av E-valg, elektroniska val i
Norge. Garanterat spännande lyssning det med\!

Denna gång kommer eventet att hållas på *Utbildningscenter för
kollektivtrafik, Bror Nilssons gata 16, 417 55 Göteborg* Håll ögonen
öppna för Eventbrite-länk.

Preliminär agenda:

17:30 Eventet öppnar. Mackor och dricka. Ett par ord från vår sponsor
Combitech

18:00 Community update

18:10 Security assessment of the E-valg system - Combitech

19:05 Bensträckare

19:15 Cross domain communication and browser security features - Erlend
Oftedal (presentation och slides är på engelska)

20:10 Mingel, en öl eller två och lite snacks

Ca 21:00 Eventet avslutas

**Abstracts:**

*Security assessment of the E-valg system*

Norge har under hösten 2011 genomfört elektroniska val med ett
nyframtaget system som kallas för E-valg. Säkerheten i ett sådant system
är naturligtvis mycket viktig för att kunna genomföra fria val med lika
rösträtt och där man kan hålla hemligt vad man röstar på. Ett viktigt
krav är att man ska kunna avge sin röst utan att rösten kan kopplas till
väljaren, man ska vara säker på att rösten har blivit registrerad på
rätt kandidat och parti och endast en röst per person ska räknas. Ett
annat krav är att ingen ska kunna forcera systemets säkerhet för att
påverka valresultatet (integritet) eller ta reda på vad någon har
röstat på (sekretess). Säkerhetsarbetet har varit en viktig del i
framtagningen av E-valg och varit del av alla faser (iterationer) av
projektet. Combitech har haft rollen som oberoende säkerhetsgranskare
och utfört granskning av design, kodgranskning och penetrationstester på
det färdiga systemet. I princip all information om systemet är dessutom
öppen för att göra det möjligt för alla som vill att granska
säkerheten. Presentationen kommer att beskriva principerna i
säkerhetslösningen och hur säkerhetsgranskning och penetrationstest
har utförts.

*Cross domain communication and browser security features*

Developers frequently see the need to be able to request data from
several sources on different domains. Traditionally this has been solved
in many ways, some of them not very secure. We will take a look at some
of these approaches, why they are flawed, and why the new approaches are
better. We will also look at common mistakes made when setting up cross
domain communication. We will also take a look at some of the new
browser security features, and how these support cross domain
communication and can help mitigate other security problems.

**2012-03-03 - Jim "@manicode" Manico till Sverige**

Jim Manico är på nordisk turné för att bland annat berätta om hur man
skyddar sig mot Cross-site scripting. Den 22e mars landar Jim i Göteborg
för att 18:00 hålla en presentation i Chalmers kårhus. Det kommer finnas
mackor, öl, snacks och dricka. Mer info kommer allt eftersom den blir
tillgänglig. Håll också ögonen öppna för Eventbrite-länk.

*Uppdatering 2012-03-12*

Här kommer nu Jims abstract och länken till anmälan via
[Eventbrite](http://owaspgbg-manico.eventbrite.com/).

Jim Manico is a profile in the OWASP community, working with the OWASP
podcasts and ESAPI amongst other things. During March he is doing a
Nordic tour and will be visiting the chapters in Finland, Sweden, Norway
and Denmark and we have the pleasure of welcoming him to Gothenburg on
March 22.

Chalmers University of Technology is sponsoring the venue and will also
provide some light snacks, coffee beer as well as non-alcoholic drinks.
Jim's visit is made possible thanks to F5.

Please note that the event will be held in **English**.

Abstract: Web Application Access Control Design Excellence Access
Control is a necessary security control at almost every layer within a
web application. This talk will discuss several of the key access
control anti-patterns commonly found during website security audits.
These access control anti-patterns include hard-coded security policies,
lack of horizontal access control, and "fail open" access control
mechanisms.

In reviewing these and other access control problems, we will discuss
and design a positive access control mechanism that is data contextual,
activity based, configurable, flexible, and deny-by-default - among
other positive design attributes that make up a robust web-based
access-control mechanism.

**2012-02-27 - Snabbt påkommen säkpub**

Vi tänkte att vi skulle avrunda februari med en tämligen snabbt påkommen
säkpub. Åtminstone någon av oss i boardet kommer finnas på
[Ölrepubliken](http://olrepubliken.se) under denna veckas torsdagskväll
(29e februari, alltså) om någon vill titta in en stund. Tilläggas kan
att det ryktas om att ett öl kallat Ctrl Alt Delete (jodå, ni läste
rätt) skall finnas i lokalen under sagda torsdagskväll. Väl mött\!

**2012-02-25 - Missa inte dev:mobile**

En utvecklarkonferens för mobilutveckling
([dev:mobile](http://devmobile.se)) kommer att gå av stapeln i Göteborg
den 12e juni. Säkerligen har några av er börjat fundera kring
säkerhetsproblem för mobila applikationer och har ni något intressant
och/eller spännande att dela med er av skulle jag rekommendera att ni
skickar in ert abstract till info@devmobile.se före 16 mars. Som
inspiration kan ni titta på [OWASP Mobile Security
Project](https://www.owasp.org/index.php/OWASP_Mobile_Security_Project)
och dess relaterade sidor.

**2012-02-06 - Öppningsceremoni för Software Center**

Den förträfflige säkerhetsforskaren Andrei Sabelfeld bad mig att meddela
den intresserade communitymedlemmen (japp, det är Du) att Software
Center officiellt öppnar på tisdagen den 14e februari. Arrangören har
dessutom haft den goda smaken att välja Kuggen på Lindholmen för
ceremonin. Dessutom utlovas både tal och poster presentationer av
intressant och aktuell forskning. Kort sagt, det finns ingen anledning
att inte gå dit. Här kommer
[länken](http://www.lindholmen.se/en/node/22046). Vi ses där\!

**2012-01-17 - Communityhack**

Nu går det bra att anmäla sig till OWASP Göteborgs communityhack som går
av stapeln 18e februari på Chalmers. Mer info hittar ni på
[Eventbrite](http://communityhack-feb-2012.eventbrite.com/), där ni även
kan anmäla er. Vi ses där\!

*Uppdatering 2012-02-12*

Adressen är Rännvägen 4. Följ [denna
länk](https://maps.google.com/maps?f=q&source=s_q&hl=en&geocode=&q=r%C3%A4nnv%C3%A4gen+4,+g%C3%B6teborg,+sverige&aq=&sll=57.687406,11.979418&sspn=0.051477,0.154324&vpsrc=0&ie=UTF8&hq=&hnear=R%C3%A4nnv%C3%A4gen+4,+412+58+G%C3%B6teborg,+Sweden&ll=57.688311,11.97808&spn=0.006434,0.01929&t=m&z=16&iwloc=A)
för att hitta dit.

Det kommer finnas en person på plats för att släppa in er från ca 08:45.

*Uppdatering 2012-01-30*

Det är nu klart att det serveras frukost på communityhacket.

*Uppdatering 2012-01-27*

Tusen tack ![Omegapoint_logo.png](Omegapoint_logo.png
"Omegapoint_logo.png") som står för pizza och dricka. Vill ditt företag
också synas på denna sida så kontakta någon av oss. Epostadresserna
finns ovan.

Vill du skylta med ditt kommande projekt inför communityhacket redan nu?
Gå in på
[Projektwikisidan](http://www.insto.org/communityhack/index.php/Main_Page)
och lägg in era förslag. Ett par förslag har redan ramlat in\!

**2012-01-17 - Så där ja\!**

Då har vi bokat Erlend Oftedal (@webtonull) till vårt april-event. Sök
på Erlend så ser ni själva vilken kanonbokning vi gjort\!

I skuggan av detta har vi dessutom bekräftat lokal till vårt
communityhack. Lunchrummet på 7e våningen i D\&IT-huset på Chalmers.
Tack Chalmers och D\&IT\!

**2012-01-16 - Vårens aktiviteter**

Väl mött\!

Vi har, julen till trots, inte riktigt bara legat på sofflocket och
slöat. Vi har flera aktiviteter på gång. Bland annat kommer Jim
Manico(\!) på Norden-turné och OWASP Göteborg kommer att arrangera en
presentationskväll med Jim längre fram i mars\! Inte nog med det. Ett
communityhack kommer att gå av stapeln i mitten på februari. Hacket
kommer hållas på Chalmers, mycket sannolikt i D\&ITs förträffliga
lunchrum på 7e våningen. Inte fy skam alls\!

Till allt detta kommer en ordinare presentationskväll i april och som om
inte allt detta är nog går ryktet att en mycket känd och otroligt
spännande säkerhetsforskare kommer befinna sig i Sverige längre fram i
vår. Givetvis kommer OWASP att göra sitt yttersta för att blanda sig i
detta besök och kanalisera det ut till Er\!

Stay tuned\!

## OWASP Gothenburg 2011

  - 2011-11-03 Martin Holst Swende [OWASP
    Hatkit](Media:Martin_Swende-Hatkit_Owasp-Gothenburg.pdf "wikilink")
  - 2011-11-03 Stefano Di Paola
    [DOMinator](Media:AnalyzingDOMXssWithDOMinator.pdf "wikilink")
  - 2011-08-25 Per Josefsson [OWASP Top
    Ten](Media:Per_Josefsson_OWASP_Topp_Tio_20110825.ppt "wikilink")
  - 2011-08-25 Jonas Magazinius [A Language-based Perspective on Web
    Application
    Security](Media:Jonas_Magazinius_OWASP_Appsec_Proglang_20110825.pptx "wikilink")

**2011-11-04 - Ett par små uppdateringar**

Riktigt kul igår\! Har man grymma talare, intressanta diskussioner och
55 personer i lokalen. Då är det rätt svårt att misslyckas...

Slides från gårdagens träff kommer att publiceras här så fort de blir
tillgängliga.

Nästa träff är ett community hack, preliminärt schemalagt till 18-19
februari. Community-hacket skiljer sig från de presentations-orienterade
kvällsträffarna. Här dyker du upp med din laptop, penna, papper och
möjligen en påse ideer som du funderat över. Sen hackar vi loss så
mycket vi orkar och ser vart det slutar\! Tänk på att det finns inget
som säger att du måste koda php, linuxmoduler eller regexpar för att få
utbyte. Har du nån kul ide om ett alternativt sätt att genomföra en
hotmodellering eller vill testa hur ZAP fungerar är det fritt fram.

För att genomföra denna träff skull vi behöva Er hjälp. Vi behöver en
**samarrangör** och **en eller flera sponsorer**. Känner du att just
ditt företag skulle vara intresserad av att ställa upp, kontakta oss.
Tillförordnad general för detta event är Erik
(erik.brannstrom@gmail.com).

**2011-10-18 - Meeting outline for November 3rd**

17:00 - 17:30 Startup mingle with food and some drinks

17:30 - 17:45 Community update

17:45 - 18:30 OWASP Hatkit (presented in English)

18:30 - 18:45 Short break

18:45 - 19:45 DOMinator (presented in English)

\[19:45 - 20:30 After event mingle\]

Lets have a beer or two and talk security\!

Mötet kommer denna gång att sponsras av Adecco IT & Engineering och
hållas på Götgatan 11, 41105 Göteborg (mitt i Nordstan). Mötet startar
17:00 och slutar runt 19:30, följt av öl och mingel. För att anmäla dig
till mötet ber vi dig besöka/To sign up for the event, please visit
[Eventbrite](http://owaspgbg-nov2011.eventbrite.com/).

**Talarinformation/Presenter information**

*Martin Holst Swende*

Martin Holst Swende is a security consultant at the Swedish company
2Secure, where he primarily is involved with application security
testing, but also does network penetration testing, IT forensics and
source code auditing. Martin has a background as an Ms.C in Computer
Science and Engineering from Linköping University and worked as a
software developer for among others Yahoo before entering the field of
security. Martin is the project leader for the Owasp Hatkit and the
Owasp Hatkit Datafiddler projects.

Presentation abstract

The Hatkit Project was created to provide a framework for web
application security testing. It consists of two parts; the Hatkit Proxy
and the Hatkit Datafiddler. The proxy is a minimalist intercepting proxy
which records data to a MongoDB database, while the Datafiddler is a
tool to view, sort, filter, aggregate, replay and analyse data through a
lot of different mechanisms, with the aim of providing a highly
customizable framework which can be used to analyse modern complex web
applications. The tools became Owasp projects in 2011.

Martin's slides: [OWASP
Hatkit](Media:Martin_Swende-Hatkit_Owasp-Gothenburg.pdf "wikilink")

*Stefano Di Paola*

Stefano Di Paola is the CTO and a cofounder of Minded Security, where he
is responsible for the Research and Development Lab. Prior to founding
Minded Security, Stefano was a freelance security consultant, working
for several private and public companies. He also worked in
collaboration with University of Florence at the Faculty of Computer
Engineering. Stefano is recognized as one of the top application
security researchers. In past years he released several cutting edge
security advisories and researches presented at several international
events (Flash application security testing, Subverting Ajax). He is the
Research & Development Director of OWASP Italian Chapter and contributor
to several chapters of the OWASP testing guide.

Presentation abstract

Cross Site Scripting is one of the most difficult issues to fix since it
involves several contexts on different platforms. And it is well known.
With the advent of complex web application with heavy client side
programming, DOM based Cross Site Scripting is becoming more and more
interesting in the application security field. The difference between
vanilla Xss and the latter is how hard is to find issues among thousands
of JavaScript lines of code, and how contexts and attacks move from
classical HTML format and client side execution to programming logic and
paradigms. This talk will try to fill the emptiness of awareness about
DOM Xss by showing new attacks and a new analysis technique whose
implementation is a tool named "DOMinator". DOMinator is a Firefox based
application that can ease the pain of finding DOM based Cross Site
Scripting issues by using runtime tainting analysis at JavaScript level.

Stefano's slides:
[DOMinator](Media:AnalyzingDOMXssWithDOMinator.pdf "wikilink")

**2011-10-14 - OWASP Göteborg den 3e november - uppdatering**

Nu är sponsor fixad och vi har någonstans att vara och mat att äta\! Nu
finns det alltså INGA hinder för att anmäla er. Kom ihåg, först till
kvarn gäller även denna gång\! Mötet kommer denna gång att hållas helt
på engelska/the meeting will be held in its entirety in English och
innehåller presentationer av Stefano Di Paola och Martin Holst Swende.

Mötet kommer denna gång att sponsras av Adecco IT & Engineering och
hållas på Götgatan 11, 41105 Göteborg (mitt i Nordstan). Mötet startar
17:00 och slutar runt 20:00, följt av öl och mingel. För att anmäla dig
till mötet ber vi dig besöka/To sign up for the event, please visit
[Eventbrite](http://owaspgbg-nov2011.eventbrite.com/).

**2011-09-17 - OWASP Göteborg den 3e november**

Vi har spikat datum för nästa träff till den tredje november. Denna
träff kommer innehålla presentationer av Stefano Di Paola och Martin
Holst Swende. Vi jagar för närvarande sponsorer och har därför ingen
plats bestämd än. Är Ditt företag intresserat av att sponsra en denna
träff är ni välkomna att höra av er till Ulf eller Mattias\!

Att vi inte har någon plats än skall dock inte få förhindra någon att
anmäla sig, så det är bara att sätta igång. Anmälningsformuläret finns
[här](http://owaspgbg-nov2011.eventbrite.com/).

**2011-09-17 - Ännu ett wow\!**

Vi har det stora nöjet att presentera vår andra spikade talare för vår
nästa träff\! Denna person är ingen mindre än Martin Holst Swende.
Martin har utvecklat verktyget OWASP Hatkit och även presenterat detta
på DEFCON 19 i år. Martin har utlovat en demobaserad presentation som
garanterat kommer att bli både spännande och lärorik\! Därav ännu ett
wow\!

**Nästa träff + wow\!**

Det ser ut som om vi har spikat första talaren till nästa träff (tack
Jonas\!). Denna person är ingen mindre än Stefano Di Paola, a.k.a
WisecWisec, a.k.a mannen bakom DOMinator. Därav wow\!

Det lutar också åt att nästa träff kommer att hållas den tredje
november. Mer information kommer allt eftersom. Stay tuned och prelboka
upp tredje november för OWASP-träff redan nu\!

**Presentationsmaterial**

Presentationsmaterial kommer att länkas till från denna sida i
anslutning till våra träffar.

**OWASP Gothenburg web site goes Swedish + surprise\!**

OWASP Göteborgs webbsida (den här alltså) kommer från idag att i
huvudsak vara på svenska. Vi vänder oss till största del till
svensktalande och har därför valt att använda svenska som språk. Det
innehåll som redan fanns på sidan (före 11 augusti 2011) kommer att
fortsätta vara på engelska. Viss generell information kommer att
översättas.

Överraskning\! OWASP Göteborg kommer att göra en kort videoinspelning
där vi skickar "en hälsning från Göteborgskapitlet". Denna hälsning,
tillsammans med hälsningar från andra kapitel kommer att visas upp på
OWASP AppSecUSA senare i höst. Själva överraskningen består i att vi har
tänkt att spela in videosnutten under vårt möte den 25e augusti. Detta
innebär också att alla som deltar på mötet också får vara med och
medverka i hälsningsvideon. De ni ;-)

**OWASP Gothenburg Meeting, August 25 2011, Welcome to Owasp Gothenburg
+ Owasp top ten w/ demo + Webappsec from a programming language
perspective**

**Meeting agenda**

*17:00 - 17:30, Welcome and sandwiches*

*17:30 - 17:45, OWASP Gothenburg Local Chapter - who are we, what do we
do?*

Introduction to the Gothenburg chapter, co-Leaders and Board-members,
and the vision for making Gothenburg to a more interesting place for
people interested in security.


*17:45 - 18:45, OWASP Top 10 - DEMO*

Per Josefsson and Ulf Larson walks through the latest version of the top
list and demonstrates a few of the attacks.

OWASP Top 10 is a list of the ten most dangerous threats with respect to
application security. The latest version is from 2010 and the next
version is expected during 2013.

Pers slides: [OWASP Top
Ten](Media:Per_Josefsson_OWASP_Topp_Tio_20110825.ppt "wikilink")

*18:45 - 19:00, Short break*

*19:00 - 19:30, Web application security from a programming language
perspective*

15 years ago the concept of "Same-Origin Policy" (SOP) was introduced.
SOP controls the interaction between web browser components. Current web
applications differ radically in how they interact and they also use
certain "hacks" to bypass the outdated policy. Jonas Magazinius
introduces ongoing research at Chalmers University regarding programming
language security and how a fine granular policy can replace SOP by
allowing more interaction without compromising security.

Jonas slides: [A Language-based Perspective on Web Application
Security](Media:Jonas_Magazinius_OWASP_Appsec_Proglang_20110825.pptx "wikilink")

*19:30 - 20:30, Beer*

[Omegapoint](http://www.omegapoint.se) are sponsors and there will be
lighter food and beers. Omegapoint is located at Rosenlundsgatan 3,
Göteborg. The event will start at 5 pm and end around 8 pm. To sign up
for the event, please visit
[this](http://owaspgbg-aug2011.eventbrite.com/) site.
**July 4th, 2011 - OWASP-Gothenburg opens\!**

Finally, OWASP Gothenburg has been formed, bringing application security
closer to developers and security professionals on the west coast of
Sweden. Ulf, Mattias and Jonas, the local chapter leaders, welcome
members\! Vem som helst är välkommen till våra möten (det enda som krävs
för deltagande är att du har gått med i [OWASP
Sweden-mailinglistan](http://lists.owasp.org/mailman/listinfo/owasp-sweden)).
Är du intresserad av att hjälpa till eller har förslag på spännande och
intressanta föredrag och/eller talare är du välkommen att kontakta oss.

[Category:OWASP_Chapter](Category:OWASP_Chapter "wikilink")
[Category:Sweden](Category:Sweden "wikilink")
[Category:Gothenburg](Category:Gothenburg "wikilink")
[Category:OWASP_Video](Category:OWASP_Video "wikilink")