## Previous meetings and Dial-in details

see [GPC Meetings](:Category:GPC_Meetings "wikilink") for previous GPC
Meetings Agenda **and the Dial-In details**

# Agenda

## Current Meeting

  - ["OWASP Mini-Summit 2009"](:Summit_2009 "wikilink")/[:OWASP AppSec
    DC 2009](:OWASP_AppSec_DC_2009 "wikilink") - Wrap-up:
      - Decisions made in DC with impact on GPC activity,
      - Has the GPC had the opportunity to contact M. Bobersky to answer
        his questions? [M. Boberski's
        questions](https://docs.google.com/a/owasp.org/Doc?docid=0AX4Puwz7EA41ZGNuODk2MmNfNTRjZGd0OTdkcw&hl=en)

<!-- end list -->

  - Leo wants to discuss about issues on usage of OWASP resources. Is
    this the right forum?
      - Brazilian AppSec Conference
      - Brazilian book that has a translated version of Top10
        "integrally", without any reference to OWASP
  - We should discuss the GPC "Chair" based on discussions at the Summit
    in DC. I am willing to take this on, but we can discuss further on
    the next call. (Brad)

-----

  - Projects
      - [OWASP ModSecurity Core Rule Set
        Project](:Category:OWASP_ModSecurity_Core_Rule_Set_Project#tab.3DProject_Details "wikilink")
        is ready for assessment and needs a GPC reviewer. Volunteers?
      - [OWASP Content Validation using Java Annotations
        Project](:Category:OWASP_Content_Validation_using_Java_Annotations_Project "wikilink")
        is ready for assessment and needs **TWO** GPC reviewers as it
        hasn't been possible to find any volunteers within our project
        leaders. Volunteers?

<!-- end list -->

  - Releases translation process
      - Shall we handle this or let with other Committe?
      - Define process only for docs or also tools?

-----

  - Project Reviewers,
      - In the sequence of suggestions and comments previously made by
        Tom and Brad and Matt, I've created a [first straw of the
        page](OWASP_Project_Reviewers_Database "wikilink") to receive
        information about hypothetical volunteer project reviewers.
          - Please check it out and let me know if you think any changes
            have to be made.
          - Also, it seems to me that the next phases of this process
            could consist in pushing it forward by using this page to
            describe the review job role and, thereafter, by doing a
            call for reviewers through our leaders' mailing list.
          - If you agree with this methodology I ask if one of you have
            the spare cycles to produce the above referred job
            description. Later on a text to support the call for
            reviewers will also be needed - I will produce a first draft
            for your comments if nobody assumes first the task.

-----

  - GPC participation at the [Iberic Web Application
    Security](http://www.ibwas.com/index.html) conference (IBWAS09):
      - For GPC's information, Paulo is partially using his time to
        assist the conference management team.
      - We need a 1h slide deck about OWASP projects to be delivered at
        the next AppSec Conference in Madrid.

## From Previous Meeting/Follow up

  - Spreading [OWASP Project Details
    Tab](:Template:OWASP_Project_Identification_Tab "wikilink") through
    [ALL OWASP Projects](OWASP_Projects_Dashboard "wikilink").
      - Revised\&improved wiki code to link projects and releases - Has
        this task been finished? Are there any available
        instructions/documentation?

# Issues for next Meeting

  - Add here

# Minutes

  - Meeting started 10H PM/GMT
  - Add here

__NOTOC__

[Category:GPC_Meetings](Category:GPC_Meetings "wikilink")