## Previous meetings and Dial-in details

see [GPC Meetings](:Category:GPC_Meetings "wikilink") for previous GPC
Meetings Agenda **and the Dial-In details**

# Agenda

## Current Meeting

  - [:Assessment Criteria
    v2.0](:Assessment_Criteria_v2.0 "wikilink")/Diagrams to be discussed
    and sent off to the leaders mailing list
      - [Assessment 2.0](:File:OWASP-AssessmentDiag.v3.png "wikilink")
      - [Projects
        Assessment](:File:OWASP-ProjectsDiag.v1.png "wikilink")
      - [Release Assessment](:File:OWASP-ReleasesDiag.v4.png "wikilink")

-----

  - Honorary Membership/New template/Communication problem
  - [Proposed Draft to answer M.
    Boberski](https://docs.google.com/a/owasp.org/Doc?docid=0AX4Puwz7EA41ZGNuODk2MmNfNTRjZGd0OTdkcw&hl=en)
  - should we address the leaders mailing list as well?

## From Previous Meeting/Follow up

  - Honorary memberships to be given to "active" OWASP participants
    (chapter leader, project participants, etc.). Chapter and projects
    committees to submit proposal for persons to be given membership:
      - Community's adhesion has been very limited if any - See the
        ["OWASP Projects
        Dashboard"](OWASP_Projects_Dashboard "wikilink"),

-----

  - Spreading [OWASP Project Details
    Tab](:Template:OWASP_Project_Identification_Tab "wikilink") through
    [ALL OWASP Projects](OWASP_Projects_Dashboard "wikilink").
  - Waiting until we (Jason's task?) come up with revised\&improved wiki
    code to link project with release

-----

  - ["OWASP Mini-Summit 2009"](:Summit_2009 "wikilink")/[:OWASP AppSec
    DC 2009](:OWASP_AppSec_DC_2009 "wikilink"):
      - [Brad's
        PPT](https://docs.google.com/a/owasp.org/present/edit?id=0Ae9M2vJFBkqfZGZjOGJoY3dfMmM3cHI0OGN6&hl=en).
      - [Brad's PPT - Second
        version](:File:AppSec_DC_2009_OWASP_GPC.ppt "wikilink")
          - Issues (revision)we decided last meeting to add to the PPT:
              - One slide about review process,
              - A reviewers' drive,
              - What we ask to all projects
              - Maybe a PDF with all diagrams and processes/everything
                we have,
              - What we want from our community,
              - SoC,
              - We should use a methodology similar to [the one we used
                in the former
                Summit](OWASP_Working_Session_Top_10_2009 "wikilink"),
              - Projects committee should involve the community in
                determining which projects/project leaders are supported
                financially. Travel, evangelism, publication, training,
                etc.....

-----

  - Committee members' evaluation process.
      - "GPC - Send 'Individual Committee Member' [online
        form](https://spreadsheets.google.com/viewform?formkey=ckdDbXE0bkxPM3dkbDZvSmFNWVBGcnc6MA)".

# Issues for next Meeting

  - Add here

# Minutes

  - Meeting started X PM/GMT
  - Add here

__NOTOC__

[Category:GPC_Meetings](Category:GPC_Meetings "wikilink")