# Agenda

  - Is it the right time to spread the [OWASP Project Identification
    Tab](:Template:OWASP_Project_Identification_Tab "wikilink") through
    ALL OWASP Projects?
      - [List of
        projects](https://spreadsheets.google.com/a/owasp.org/ccc?key=0An4Puwz7EA41cjJaamFRRGZXNVdRNlplR0s0cDFVRVE&hl=en)
        in which the template has already been set up - includes all the
        [orphaned
        projects](:Category:OWASP_Orphaned_Projects "wikilink") and the
        ones recently set up.

<!-- end list -->

  - [OWASP Board Meeting September
    01](OWASP_Board_Meeting_September_01 "wikilink") decisions with
    direct impact upon GPC activity:
      - Honorary memberships to be given to "active" OWASP participants
        (chapter leader, project participants, etc.). Chapter and
        projects committees to submit proposal for persons to be given
        membership.
      - Begin with "state of OWASP" then maximum 1 hour given to each
        committee during the mini summit to present their issues and
        topics and board meeting at the end to vote. Thoughts about a
        panal discussion or debate during summit.
      - Announcement for 6th Board member vote that will occur in
        November. Ballots to be created and candidates need to be placed
        on the ballot prior to 10/10/09.
      - Projects committee should determine which projects/project
        leaders are supported financially. Travel, evangalism,
        publication, training, etc.....
      - Committees can have paypal buttons on their pages to enable
        sponsors to dedicate the sponsor budget to a certain area. e.g.
        Education



# Minutes

Meeting started 10PM/GMT+1

  - **Issue**: Is it the right time to spread the [OWASP Project
    Identification
    Tab](:Template:OWASP_Project_Identification_Tab "wikilink") through
    ALL OWASP Projects?
      - **Outcome/decision**:
          - Yes, it´s the right time to spread the template.
          - The entire committee as a whole will assume the task.
          - Jason is still working on the template wiki code.



  - **Issue**: Honorary memberships to be given to "active" OWASP
    participants (chapter leader, project participants, etc.). Chapter
    and projects committees to submit proposal for persons to be given
    membership.
    \***Outcome/decision:**
      -   - This responsibility has been delegated by OWASP Board and
            the GPC has agreed to accept its share on it.
          - Paulo will assume the lead in writing down a draft to square
            to who the honorary membership should be given.



  - **Issue**: Begin with "state of OWASP" then maximum 1 hour given to
    each committee during the mini summit to present their issues and
    topics and board meeting at the end to vote. Thoughts about a panel
    discussion or debate during summit.
      - **Outcome/decision:**
          - Brad will draft a template letter to be used by OWASP Board
            to be sent off to the committee members' employers
            explaining they have been invited to particpate in the
            Mini-Summit. 
          - In the next week GPC's conference call the work to build an
            agenda to discuss in the Mini-Summit will start.
              - A few aspects to focus on:
                  - Why hasn't the SoC 09 been launched still?
                  - Which criteria should ultimately preside SoC's fund
                    allocation?
                  - GPC's new methodologies to manage and assess
                    projects.



  - **Issue**: Announcement for 6th Board member vote that will occur in
    November. Ballots to be created and candidates need to be placed on
    the ballot prior to 10/10/09.
      - **Outcome/decision:**
          - No decision has been made. The ballot process - mainly its
            logistics questions - was thoroughly discussed.



  - **Issue**: Projects committee should determine which
    projects/project leaders are supported financially. Travel,
    evangelism, publication, training, etc.....
      - **Outcome/decision:**
          - This responsibility has been delegated by OWASP Board and
            the GPC has agreed to accept it.
          - Matt Tesauro has assumed the task of drafting a framework to
            deal with this kind of issues.
          - Dinis suggested an SoC 09 application to fund this
            initiative.
          - Even without a general framework to square the question of
            partially funding Matt's trip to Brasil AppSec, the GPC,
            having into account his relevant past contributions and its
            interest in being represented in this conference, has
            decided to support the expenses. Matt has been asked to come
            up with an estimate of cost.



  - **Issue**: Committees can have paypal buttons on their pages to
    enable sponsors to dedicate the sponsor budget to a certain area.
    e.g. Education
      - **Outcome/decision:**
          - Paulo will contact Kate and Larry so as to install the tool
            at GPC wiki page


Meeting ended 01 AM/GMT+1

# Next Meeting

  - Discuss the possibility of using the "OWASP on the Move" programme
    to fund the activities above mentioned (projects/project leaders:
    Travel, evangelism, publication, training, etc.....)

[Category:GPC_Meetings](Category:GPC_Meetings "wikilink")