# Agenda

## From Previous Meeting

  - Spreading [OWASP Project Identification
    Tab](:Template:OWASP_Project_Identification_Tab "wikilink") through
    ALL OWASP Projects.
      - [Project Template Status](http://shorttext.com/5bfclwxcd) -
        Jason's report.
      - [List of
        projects](https://spreadsheets.google.com/a/owasp.org/ccc?key=0An4Puwz7EA41cjJaamFRRGZXNVdRNlplR0s0cDFVRVE&hl=en)
        in which the template has already been set up.

-----

  - Honorary memberships to be given to "active" OWASP participants
    (chapter leader, project participants, etc.). Chapter and projects
    committees to submit proposal for persons to be given membership.
      - Paulo is still working on it.

-----

  - Begin with "state of OWASP" then maximum 1 hour given to each
    committee during the mini summit to present their issues and topics
    and board meeting at the end to vote. Thoughts about a panal
    discussion or debate during summit.
      - Follow up:
          - [Brad's draft of a template
            letter](http://shorttext.com/vcyjugly5) to be used by OWASP
            Board to be sent off to the committee members' employers
            explaining they have been invited to particpate in the
            Mini-Summit.
      - Build an agenda to discuss in the Mini-Summit:
          - A few aspects to focus on:
              - Why hasn't the SoC 09 been launched still?
              - Which criteria should ultimately preside SoC's fund
                allocation?
              - GPC's new methodologies to manage and assess projects.

-----

  - Projects committee should determine which projects/project leaders
    are supported financially. Travel, evangalism, publication,
    training, etc.....
      - Discuss the possibility of using the "OWASP on the Move"
        programme to fund the activities above mentioned
        (projects/project leaders: Travel, evangelism, publication,
        training, etc.....)
      - Follow up:
          - Matt Tesauro's draft to deal with this kind of issues.
          - Matt's trip to Brasil AppSec - approval of his estimate of
            cost.

-----

  - Committees can have paypal buttons on their pages to enable sponsors
    to dedicate the sponsor budget to a certain area. e.g. Education
      - Paulo is working on it with Kate who has just returned today
        from a short vacancy.

-----

## Current Meeting

  - Does it make sense keeping in our new template the field ***Project
    Health*** while the criteria for its assessment haven't been built
    still? Couldn't we "hide" it until being ready for public display?
      - Can we post in the leaders mailing list inviting our leaders to
        come up and help us to finish up this set of criteria?
  - Do we all agree with these [Dinis' and jeff's
    perspectives](http://shorttext.com/imjrt5ikq)? If so can we make a
    post in our [blog](http://globalprojectscommittee.wordpress.com/)
    advertising the GPC policy about this issue?

# Issues for next Meeting

  - Add here

# Minutes

  - Meeting started 10PM/GMT+1
  - Add here

__NOTOC__

[Category:GPC_Meetings](Category:GPC_Meetings "wikilink")