### Summary of GPC 2011 Global Summit Working Session Outcomes

During the working session, the GPC solicited feedback on two GPC
initiatives: OWASP Projects Hosting and the OWASP Project Lifecycle. The
Project Hosting initiative is an effort to provide a consistent,
centralized infrastructure for OWASP projects so we better manage,
support and promote projects. The Project Lifecycle initiative is an
effort to help clarify the maturity of an OWASP project in order to
better serve users and help facilitate allocation our resources to
properly support our projects. These outcomes are encapsulated in a
draft project hosting [Request For
Proposals](https://docs.google.com/document/pub?id=10qW-Jh7IFoTsp9eh-t_aHiderkCDLFk0KCx2TNOuxoI)
and draft lifecycle diagrams ([Projects Lifecycle
Overview](https://docs.google.com/document/pub?id=1X3SrP_gJAQ3VVQJr86NahrkUtU8OK1Vx_LOxcfsF97A&pli=1),
[Project Workflow
Diagram](https://docs.google.com/a/owasp.org/leaf?id=0B2vv_7Gz8Z7TOWYyN2VjNjgtMWU1My00YjkxLTk0ZGYtNmUyMTNmMDg4YzI0&sort=name&layout=list&num=50)).
As a direct result of the Summit, the GPC also welcomed two new members:
[Chris
Schmidt](Global_Projects_and_Tools_Committee_-_Application_3 "wikilink")
and [Justin
Searle](Global_Projects_and_Tools_Committee_-_Application_4 "wikilink").
Both of them have already made contributions to the GPC during the
Summit.

### Summary of GPC Post-Summit Progress

The GPC has welcomed two additional members: [Larry
Casey](Global_Projects_and_Tools_Committee_-_Application_5 "wikilink")
and [Keith
Turpin](Global_Projects_and_Tools_Committee_-_Application_6 "wikilink").
With the Board's approval of the [2011
Budget](https://docs.google.com/a/owasp.org/document/d/11HjbUeJxyRbQ4Jg6Wg7LceMZox0wz3Fz-LUwjfam5eg/edit?hl=en_USGPC),
the GPC is now actively pursuing proposals for project hosting services.
Our current plan is to pilot the hosting services by migrating select
projects to the hosting infrastructure before announcing general
availability of the service by the end of the year. Project hosting
services will be used to directly support the OWASP Project Lifecycle
and will help the GPC determine maturity of projects. In addition, the
Project Lifecycle has been augmented to include the OWASP Enterprise
category of projects, which are projects specifically geared and
supported to be used in enterprise companies. Projects in this category
will be required to conform to the strictest project requirements and
pursue "product" or "production-ready" levels of maturity.

Updated 13-April-2011

[Category:GPC Meetings](Category:GPC_Meetings "wikilink")