# Introduction

As part of its 2009 agenda, the [Global Projects
Committee](:Category:Global_Projects_Committee "wikilink") is
undertaking the task of improving the OWASP Project structure. This task
includes determining orphaned projects, updating and augmenting the
existing project criteria, and reclassifying projects to help users find
OWASP Projects that are relevant and important to them.

To help us with this task, we have created a number of surveys that we
have distributed to the OWASP Community. Each survey serves a different
purpose as explained below. For any questions, please contact the Global
Projects Committee.

# OWASP Project Owner Spring 2009 Self Update

The project owner(s) for each OWASP Project (both tools and documents)
are asked to complete a self update on the status of their project. This
information will help the Global Projects Committee discover orphan
projects, create processes to help mature existing projects, and to
collect metadata about projects that will allow us to re-design the
OWASP Project pages. This self-update can be found
\[<https://spreadsheets.google.com/viewform?hl=en&formkey=cEp6TlUxeU5KZDdWQkgxYlM2clkwRVE6MA>..
here\].

# OWASP Project Sponsorship Survey

The Global Projects Committee is currently exploring corporate
sponsorship of individual OWASP Projects. Any project that indicates
they would be interested in corporate sponsorship should fill out
\[<https://spreadsheets.google.com/viewform?hl=en&formkey=cEp6TlUxeU5KZDdXZmhudlFKa3BiYXc6MA>..
this survey\] in addition to the Self Update.

# OWASP Project Feedback

The Global Projects Committee would also like to facilitate feedback to
OWASP Projects from the OWASP Community. Our first attempt to do so is
the
\[<https://spreadsheets.google.com/viewform?hl=en&formkey=cEp6TlUxeU5KZDdXaTdlNk5PRUgxWVE6MA>..
Project Feedback form\]. If you are interested in providing feedback for
a particular project, please use this form. Also, if you are a project
owner, please feel free to distribute this form to your users and we
will forward you the feedback from any surveys for your project. Please
be constructive in your feedback and note that all feedback will be made
public.

# Results

The OWASP Project Owner Spring 2009 Self Update was closed on May 1st,
2009. Fifty-seven projects were updated by their owners (or a
contributor/reviewer). The following is a summary of the results of the
survey.

## Adoption

The following projects had leaders that *responded* to the survey and
explicitly stated that they are willing to cede control of the project
to a new project owner. The GPC will evaluate whether the project should
have a new "leader", a "maintainer", or the project should be archived.

  - CAL9000 - recommend that this should be given to a maintainer
  - Java Project - recommend that this should be given to a new leader
  - Sprajax - recommendation TBA
  - SqliBench - recommendation TBA
  - WebScarab - recommend that this should be given to a maintainer
  - Google Hacking - recommend that this should be archived. The search
    API used by the Google Hacking project is due to be deprecated and
    discontinued by Google in August 2009.

## Orphaned Projects

The following projects are listed in the page but did not respond to the
Self Update. As a result, these projects will be considered orphaned and
inactive. The Global Projects Committee is working on determining
whether a project is eligible for adoption or if the project should be
archived.

  - [OWASP AIR Security
    Project](:Category:OWASP_AIR_Security_Project "wikilink")
  - [OWASP AJAX Security
    Guide](:Category:OWASP_AJAX_Security_Project "wikilink")
  - [OWASP Application Security Assessment Standards
    Project](:Category:OWASP_Application_Security_Assessment_Standards_Project "wikilink")
  - [OWASP Application Security Metrics
    Project](:Category:OWASP_Application_Security_Metrics_Project "wikilink")
  - [OWASP AppSec FAQ
    Project](:Category:OWASP_AppSec_FAQ_Project "wikilink")
  - [OWASP Career Development
    Project](:Category:OWASP_Career_Development_Project "wikilink")
  - [OWASP Certification Criteria
    Project](:Category:OWASP_Certification_Criteria_Project "wikilink")
  - [OWASP Communications
    Project](:Category:OWASP_Communications_Project "wikilink")
  - [OWASP Corporate Application Security Rating
    Guide](:OWASP_Corporate_Application_Security_Rating_Guide "wikilink")
  - [CRM Project](:Category:OWASP_CRM_Project "wikilink")
  - [OWASP Education
    Project](:Category:OWASP_Education_Project "wikilink")
  - [OWASP Encoding
    Project](:Category:OWASP_Encoding_Project "wikilink")
  - [ESAPI Swingset](ESAPI_Swingset "wikilink") - this should be a child
    project to ESAPI
  - [Flash Security
    Project](:Category:OWASP_Flash_Security_Project "wikilink")
  - [OWASP Fuzzing Code
    Database](:Category:OWASP_Fuzzing_Code_Database "wikilink")
  - [OWASP Honeycomb
    Project](:Category:OWASP_Honeycomb_Project "wikilink") - project
    absorved by ASDR
  - [OWASP Insecure Web App
    Project](:Category:OWASP_Insecure_Web_App_Project "wikilink")
  - [OWASP Interceptor
    Project](:Category:OWASP_Interceptor_Project "wikilink")
  - [OWASP JBroFuzz Project](:Category:OWASP_JBroFuzz "wikilink")
  - [OWASP Jobs Project](:Category:OWASP_Jobs_Project "wikilink")
  - [OWASP Joomla Vulnerability Scanner
    Project](:Category:OWASP_Joomla_Vulnerability_Scanner_Project "wikilink")
  - [LAPSE Project](:Category:OWASP_LAPSE_Project "wikilink")
  - [LiveCD Education
    Project](:Category:OWASP_LiveCD_Education_Project "wikilink")
  - [OWASP Logging Guide](:Category:OWASP_Logging_Project "wikilink")
  - [OWASP Mutillidae](:Category:OWASP_Mutillidae "wikilink")
  - [OpenSign Server
    Project](:Category:OWASP_OpenSign_Server_Project "wikilink")
  - [Oracle Project](:Category:OWASP_Oracle_Project "wikilink")
  - [OWASP Pantera Web Assessment Studio
    Project](:Category:OWASP_Pantera_Web_Assessment_Studio_Project "wikilink")
  - [OWASP PHP AntiXSS Library
    Project](:Category:OWASP_PHP_AntiXSS_Library_Project "wikilink")
  - [OWASP PHP Project](:Category:OWASP_PHP_Project "wikilink")
  - [OWASP Report Generator](ORG_\(Owasp_Report_Generator\) "wikilink")
  - [OWASP Scholastic Application Security Assessment
    Project](:Category:OWASP_SASAP_Project "wikilink")
  - [OWASP Security Spending
    Benchmarks](:Category:OWASP_Security_Spending_Benchmarks "wikilink")
  - [OWASP Site Generator](Owasp_SiteGenerator "wikilink")
  - [OWASP Source Code Review for
    OWASP-Projects](:Category:OWASP_Source_Code_Review_OWASP_Projects_Project "wikilink")
  - [OWASP Speakers
    Project](:Category:OWASP_Speakers_Project "wikilink")
  - [OWASP SQLiX Project](:Category:OWASP_SQLiX_Project "wikilink")
  - [OWASP Stinger Project](:Category:OWASP_Stinger_Project "wikilink")
  - [OWASP SWAAT Project](:Category:OWASP_SWAAT_Project "wikilink")
  - [OWASP Tiger](OWASP_Tiger "wikilink")
  - [OWASP Tools Project](:Category:OWASP_Tools_Project "wikilink")
  - [OWASP Validation
    Project](:Category:OWASP_Validation_Project "wikilink")
  - [OWASP Vicnum Project](:Category:OWASP_Vicnum_Project "wikilink")
  - [OWASP Web 2.0 Project](:_Category:OWASP_Web_2.0_Project "wikilink")
  - [OWASP Web Application Scanner Specification
    Project](:_Category:OWASP_Web_Application_Scanner_Specification_Project "wikilink")
  - [OWASP Web Application Security Metric using Attack Patterns
    Project](:_Category:OWASP_Web_Application_Security_Metric_using_Attack_Patterns_Project "wikilink")
  - [OWASP Web Application Security Put Into
    Practice](:_Category:OWASP_Web_Application_Security_Put_Into_Practice "wikilink")
  - [OWASP Web Services Security
    Project](:_Category:OWASP_Web_Services_Security_Project "wikilink")
  - [OWASP WeBekci Project](:_Category:OWASP_Webekci_Project "wikilink")
  - [OWASP WSFuzzer
    Project](:_Category:OWASP_WSFuzzer_Project "wikilink")
  - [OWASP XML Security Gateway Evaluation
    Criteria](:_Category:OWASP_XML_Security_Gateway_Evaluation_Criteria_Project "wikilink")

## Grants

The following projects were identified as an OWASP "project" but should
be recategorized as an OWASP Grant under the new grant framework.

  - [OWASP Book Cover & Sleeve
    Design](:_Category:OWASP_Book_Cover_%26_Sleeve_Design "wikilink")
  - [OWASP on The Move
    Project](:_Category:OWASP_on_the_Move_Project "wikilink")
  - [OWASP Individual and Corporate Member Packs plus Conference
    Attendee Packs
    Brief](:Category:OWASP_Individual_and_Corporate_Member_Packs_plus_Conference_Attendee_Packs_Brief "wikilink")

[Category:OWASP Project](Category:OWASP_Project "wikilink")
[Category:Global_Projects_Committee](Category:Global_Projects_Committee "wikilink")