[Development Guide Table of
Contents](Guide_Table_of_Contents "wikilink") __TOC__

Welcome to the Development OWASP Guide 3.0\!

Web application security is an essential component of any successful
project, whether open source PHP applications, web services such as
straight through processing, or proprietary business web sites. Hosters
(rightly) shun insecure code, and users shun insecure services that lead
to fraud.

The aim of this Development Guide is to allow businesses, developers,
designers and solution architects to produce secure web applications. If
done from the earliest stages, secure applications cost about the same
to develop as insecure applications, but are far more cost effective in
the long run.

## Developing Secure Applications

Unlike other forms of security (such as firewalls and secure lockdowns),
web applications have the ability to make a skilled attacker rich, or
make the life of a victim a complete misery. At this highest level of
the OSI software map, traditional firewalls and other controls simply do
not help. The application itself must be self-defending. The Development
Guide can help you get there.

The Development Guide has been written to cover all forms of web
application security issues, from old hoary chestnuts such as SQL
Injection, through modern concerns such as AJAX, phishing, credit card
handling, session fixation, cross-site request forgeries, compliance,
and privacy issues.

## Improvements in this edition

This latest edition of the Development Guide builds upon the successful
release of the Development Guide 2.0 at BlackHat Las Vegas in July 2005.
With fearless editing by our publisher, No Starch Press, this edition
aims to be concise and accurate. There are three new chapters, and a
great deal of new content throughout.

Each chapter is organized into roughly three sections:

  - Best practices – Practices or features every application should
    possess
  - Secure patterns – Optional secure patterns, such as the best way to
    do password self-help
  - Anti-patterns – if you have these in your code, you are more
    insecure

## How to use this Guide

This Development Guide is a large work as it aims for completeness. The
best way to treat the Development Guide is as a dictionary of best
practices. However, web application security is like a language –
without some form of context – it is nearly impossible to speak it well.
Therefore, readers are well advised to read the “Security Principles”
chapter in its entirety.

## Updates and errata

The Development Guide will likely have errors and deficiencies. We will
publish errata on our web site from time to time if you’d like to keep
your copy up to date.

If you have any comments or suggestions on the Development Guide, please
e-mail the Development Guide mail list (see our web site for details) or
contact me directly.

## With thanks

I wish to extend my thanks to the many authors, reviewers, and editors
for their hard work in producing this Development Guide. We stand on the
shoulders of giants, and this Development Guide is no exception.

Lastly, I wish to thank No Starch Press, particularly our editors and
Bill Pollock for believing in us, and bringing our community’s text into
a publishable state.

Andrew van der Stock, vanderaj@owasp.org Melbourne, Australia December,
2005

[Development Guide Table of
Contents](Guide_Table_of_Contents "wikilink")

[Category:OWASP_Guide_Project](Category:OWASP_Guide_Project "wikilink")