![468x60-banner-2010.gif](468x60-banner-2010.gif
"468x60-banner-2010.gif")

[Registration](https://guest.cvent.com/EVENTS/Register/IdentityConfirmation.aspx?e=d52c6f5f-d568-4e16-b8e0-b5e2bf87ab3a)
|
[Hotel](https://resweb.passkey.com/Resweb.do?mode=welcome_gi_new&groupID=2766908)
| [Walter E. Washington Convention
Center](http://www.dcconvention.com/)
\== The presentation ==

![Owasp_logo_normal.jpg](Owasp_logo_normal.jpg
"Owasp_logo_normal.jpg")

[Denial-Of-Service](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Denial-of-service_attack)
is an attempt to make a computer resource unavailable to its intended
users and is not new. In recent history such as April 2009, government
and financial sites in the U.S. and South Korea were attacked by DDOS
and were brought offline for days. This incident followed the and
Georgian DDOS attacks in 2008 and Estonian DDOS attacks in 2007.
However, the attacks used in these incidents were primarily Layer 4
(TCP) attacks which are already addressed by anti-DDOS solutions.

A NEW and very lethal form of Layer 7 attack technique, which uses slow
HTTP POST connections, was discovered by Onn Chee and his team. An
attacker will send properly crafted HTTP POST headers, which contains a
legitimate "Content-Length" field to inform the web server how much of
data to expect. After the HTTP POST headers are fully sent, the HTTP
POST message body is sent at slow speeds to prolong the completion of
the connection and lock up precious server resources.

They will also demonstrate how an "agentless" DDOS botnet can be created
via malicious online games and how a victim website can be brought down
in matter of minutes using the HTTP POST DDOS attack.

Onn Chee and Tom Brennan will walk through the details of how this
lethal HTTP POST DDOS technique works, other interesting findings in the
protocol and the challenges in defending critical infrastructure against
targeted attacks.

A Q\&A session will be held at the end to BRAIN STORM ideas on how best
to defend against this new and lethal DDOS attack technique - including
the mobile botnets

[Dark Reading
Article](http://www.darkreading.com/vulnerability_management/security/attacks/showArticle.jhtml?articleID=228000532&cid=nl_DR_daily_2010-11-02_text)

## Speakers

**Tom Brennan** is a Managing Partner of [Proactive
Risk](http://www.proactiverisk.com) and volunteer to the the OWASP
Foundation as [Global Board
Member](http://www.owasp.org/index.php/About_OWASP) and [NYC Chapter
President](http://www.owasp.org/index.php/NYNJMetro).

**Onn Chee** is currently working as the Chief Technology Officer in
Resolvo Systems, a leading information leakage expert in Asia. He has
led numerous large-scale projects, primarily in the government and
defense sectors. His areas of expertise include information leakage
protection, web security and security strategy. Onn Chee is also one of
the co-inventors for at least six international PCT patents
(http://www.wipo.int).

Onn Chee was a founding member and the first Vice-President of the
Information Systems Security Association (ISSA), Singapore Chapter
(http://www.issa.org.sg), the largest international, not-for-profit
association for security professionals. He contributes regularly to ISSA
Journal and has published his works in the area of information leakage
protection and application of evidence laws when designing IT systems.
He was also a former member of the Center of Internet Security (US)
(http://www.cisecurity.org) which provides well-recognized security
benchmarks for various systems which are commonly used by US Federal
Government and private organizations. Onn Chee is also the current
Singapore chapter president of Open Web Application Security Project
(OWASP) (http://www.owasp.org/) and the main organizer of the Security
Meetup Group in Singapore. Onn Chee is frequently invited to speak in
information security conferences here in Singapore.

[Category:AppSec_DC_2010_Presentations](Category:AppSec_DC_2010_Presentations "wikilink")
[Category:OWASP_Conference_Presentations](Category:OWASP_Conference_Presentations "wikilink")