![468x60-banner-2010.gif](468x60-banner-2010.gif
"468x60-banner-2010.gif")

[Registration](https://guest.cvent.com/EVENTS/Register/IdentityConfirmation.aspx?e=d52c6f5f-d568-4e16-b8e0-b5e2bf87ab3a)
|
[Hotel](https://resweb.passkey.com/Resweb.do?mode=welcome_gi_new&groupID=2766908)
| [Walter E. Washington Convention
Center](http://www.dcconvention.com/)
\== The presentation ==

![Owasp_logo_normal.jpg](Owasp_logo_normal.jpg
"Owasp_logo_normal.jpg")Business intelligence is a multi-billion
industry. At the top of the product food chain is BusinessObjects.
BusinessObjects is a very widely deployed business intelligence tool
that’s focus is in managing, querying, analyzing, and reporting on
business data. It is used by government entities (e.g. U.S Air Force),
telecom companies (e.g. Verizon), car manufacturers (e.g. Nissan), and
beverage companies (e.g. Coors) to retain and control vast amounts of
data. If you are a penetration tester chances are you have run into at
least one BusinessObjects server during an engagement. Yet, very few
vulnerabilities have been publically released and, to the best of the
authors knowledge, no white papers have been released on attack
methodologies for BusinessObjects itself. In this presentation we will
present the entire lifecycle of attacking a BusinessObjects server from
external and internal enumeration (e.g. Google dorks), fingerprinting
techniques, account enumeration vulnerabilities, specific attack vectors
for gaining access to accounts, privilege escalation vulnerabilities,
and eventually full system compromise vulnerabilities that we have found
during our research. Anyone interesting in attacking an organization
that has BusinessObjects or SOA deployed in their environment should
attend this talk.

## Joshua Abraham

Joshua “Jabra” Abraham joined Rapid7 in 2006 as a Security Consultant.
Josh has extensive IT Security and Auditing experience and worked as an
enterprise risk assessment analyst for Hasbro Corporation. Josh
specializes in penetration testing, web application security
assessments, wireless security assessments, and custom code development.
He has spoken at BlackHat, DefCon, ShmooCon, The SANS Pentest Summit,
Infosec World, CSI, OWASP Conferences, LinuxWorld, Comdex and BLUG. In
his spare time, he contributes code to open source security projects
such as the BackTrack LiveCD, BeEF, Nikto, Fierce, and PBNJ. He is
frequently quoted in the media regarding Microsoft Patch Tuesday and web
application security by ComputerWorld, DarkReading and SC Magazine.

[Category:AppSec_DC_2010_Presentations](Category:AppSec_DC_2010_Presentations "wikilink")
[Category:OWASP_Conference_Presentations](Category:OWASP_Conference_Presentations "wikilink")