![468x60-banner-2010.gif](468x60-banner-2010.gif
"468x60-banner-2010.gif")

[Registration](https://guest.cvent.com/EVENTS/Register/IdentityConfirmation.aspx?e=d52c6f5f-d568-4e16-b8e0-b5e2bf87ab3a)
|
[Hotel](https://resweb.passkey.com/Resweb.do?mode=welcome_gi_new&groupID=2766908)
| [Walter E. Washington Convention
Center](http://www.dcconvention.com/)
\== The presentation ==

![Jon_McCoy.jpg](Jon_McCoy.jpg "Jon_McCoy.jpg")Increasingly desktop
applications are created in .NET with C\#, VB.NET, MC++, F\#... by both
small and large scale businesses. Securing these applications is
becoming increasingly important as they hold critical security features
and intellectual property.

This presentation will cover techniques designed to penetrate and
subvert protected .NET Applications at Runtime. Such techniques will
access running .NET programs to takeover the Live Object Structure and
allow it to be directly traversed, modified, and subverted. This in turn
makes the core logic malleable. I will demonstrate infecting software
and implement changes to facilitate reverse engineering, software
analysis, malware research, third-party patches, and much more.

This vector of attack is for the most part completely unstoppable on
owned systems. Compiled program protections such as Wrappers, Encryption
Shells, Obfuscation, Anti-Debugging... all do nothing to stop this type
of attack, they can only slow it.

These techniques are carried out using core features in the .NET
Framework, so no crazy ASM magic or obscure soon to be fixed API is
used. If you are a .NET programmer and did not think you would make
hacks under a managed world, this is your chance to brake-out and learn
how to produce hard core attacks.

## Jon McCoy

Jon McCoy has been working in .NET since v1.1. He enjoys bending the
rules and finding different and new ways to utilize .Net.

He is a software engineer, both self taught and classically trained. He
spent more then 10 years programming C++, but has focused on C\#(.NET)
for the last 7 years.

[Category:AppSec_DC_2010_Presentations](Category:AppSec_DC_2010_Presentations "wikilink")
[Category:OWASP_Conference_Presentations](Category:OWASP_Conference_Presentations "wikilink")