## About

The **OWASP Hampton Roads Local Chapter** meetings are FREE and OPEN to
anyone interested in learning more about **Software Security**. We
encourage individuals to provide knowledge transfer via hands-on
training and presentations of specific OWASP projects and research
topics and sharing SDLC knowledge. OWASP Hampton Roads Chapter is
growing and its members have a wide range of experience and backgrounds.
We will be aiming to have meeting each quarter and will be looking to
increase in frequency as the chapter grows. We'll be looking for members
to help volunteer during the this and the next quarter.

We encourage vendor-agnostic presentations to utilize the OWASP
Powerpoint template when applicable and individual volunteerism to
enable perpetual growth. As a 501(3)c non-profit association donations
of meeting space or refreshments sponsorship is encouraged, simply
contact the local chapter leaders listed on this page to discuss. Prior
to participating with OWASP please review the Chapter Rules.

The chapter is committed to providing an engaging experience for a
variety of audience types ranging from local students and those
beginning in app-sec, to those experienced and accomplished
professionals who are looking for competent collaborators for
OWASP-related projects. To this end, we will continue to conduct both
quarterly chapter meetings as well as out-of-band curricula, on
application security topics.

## Schedule

Meetings are (generally) held once each quarter and as we grow our
membership we will obtain a battle rhythm and will solidify our
schedule.

Note: We need speakers and topics\! If you want to present, please
contact [<Mailto:carlos.cruz@owasp.org> Carlos
Cruz](Mailto:carlos.cruz@owasp.org_Carlos_Cruz "wikilink"). We're very
open to hearing from all our members.

We'll post all meetings on the Meetup page below.

We can also be contacted through the comment or messages systems on
Meetup.

### For latest news check the meetup page here: [Meetup](https://www.meetup.com/OWASP-Hampton-Roads-Chapter/)

[Category:OWASP Chapter](Category:OWASP_Chapter "wikilink")
[Category:United States](Category:United_States "wikilink")