This page has some pointers to useful documentation for dealing with
OWASP's Wiki.

There is an [Editing Help](https://www.owasp.org/index.php/Help:Editing)
page (linked to at the bottom of every edit page) that has some useful
material. If you are making small changes or only textual (as compared
to formatting) then the information on that page should be fine. If you
are making larger changes, look for an article that looks like what you
want and steal the formatting. Remember, you can edit nearly every page
so if, for example, you want to copy some formatting off of the [About
OWASP](https://www.owasp.org/index.php/About_The_Open_Web_Application_Security_Project)
page (something you should probably never edit without great care and
discussion), you can still click the edit link and copy the formatting.
The Wiki does some page locking so it is generally better to hit the
"Cancel" link after you have copied-and-pasted. If you forget, it is not
a big deal as there is a timeout on the lock so it will fix itself
eventually. For example, the previously mentioned [Editing
Help](https://www.owasp.org/index.php/Help:Editing) page has about as
complex a table as you could want and you can copy the formatting for
that table and use it.

Should you be looking for something that is more complicated or you want
more extensive documentation to help you out, then the
[Wikipedia's](http://www.wikipedia.org/en) help pages are your best bet.
Both the OWASP Wiki and the Wikipedia are powered by the same Wiki
engine, [MediaWiki](http://www.mediawiki.org/).

The following are some jumping off points for the Wikipedia's help
pages:

  - [Wikipedia's "Editing
    Help"](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Help:Editing): Similar to
    OWASP's "Editing Help" page.
  - [The Wikipedia
    Cheatsheet](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:Cheatsheet): A
    quick reference guide.
  - [A Quick Guide to
    Templates](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Help:A_quick_guide_to_templates):
    Templates are a macro feature that can be used for everything from
    reducing typing to giving multiple pages a common look-and-feel.
    They are not used very much in OWASP's Wiki although I do not know
    why. While the Wikipedia and OWASP's Wiki share the same Wiki
    engine, the Wikipedia has added a rather large collection of
    templates that are not found in OWASP so do not be surprised if some
    of the documentation about specific templates is incorrect.
  - [Magic Words](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Help:Magic_words): At
    least some of these magic words work (e.g.: the "__TOC__").

Please update this page if you have further updates.