**`THIS``   ``ARTICLE``   ``IS``   ``A``   ``DRAFT`**` `

## Overview

One of the main objectives of the [OWASP Application Security
Verification
Standard](OWASP_Application_Security_Verification_Standard "wikilink")
(ASVS) is to provide a basis for specifying web application security
verification requirements in contracts. The [OWASP Secure Software
Contract Annex](OWASP_Secure_Software_Contract_Annex "wikilink") has in
fact been updated to make use of the ASVS. Where can one go to find a
business that you can call on to perform an OWASP ASVS verification? The
answer is here, in this very article. This article contains a registry
of businesses that perform application security verifications according
to OWASP ASVS. These businesses are called “verification providers”.

Verification providers listed below have made a commitment to perform
application security verifications according to OWASP ASVS requirements.
Verification providers listed below are not accredited by OWASP. Neither
their products or services have been endorsed by OWASP. OWASP has also
not made a determination as to the business’ quality or competency in
performing services. Businesses are under no obligation to seek
inclusion in the list below in order to perform application security
verifications according to OWASP ASVS.

## How to Add Your Company to the Verification Provider Registry

Verification providers listed below have made a commitment to make a
good faith effort to resolve any consumer complaints that are specific
to their use of the OWASP ASVS to perform application security
verifications. This verification provider registry is made available to
OWASP Organizational Supporters as an Organizational Supporter benefit.

**To Add Your Company:**

Contact: [Mike Boberski](mailto:boberski_michael@bah.com). Provide the
following information:

  - Company name and web site URL
  - Company mailing address
  - Point of contact's name
  - Point of contact's phone number
  - Point of contact's email address
  - ASVS Levels that your company performs (Select one or more: 1A, 1B,
    2A, 2B, 3, 4)
  - Markets served (Select one or both: Commercial, Government)

## How to File a Complaint Against a Registered Verification Provider

If you are a customer of a verification provider listed below, and if a
verification report provided to you does not include the required
content according to OWASP ASVS reporting requirements, you can enlist
the OWASP Foundation to forward a complaint on your behalf to the
verification provider.

**To File a Complaint:**

Contact: [Kate Hartman](mailto:kate.hartman@owasp.org). Provide the
following information:

  - Your name and phone number.
  - The name of the verification provider
  - The targeted OWASP ASVS Level
  - Which verification report section(s) are missing

In some cases, the OWASP may contact you for additional information
about your complaint. OWASP will then forward the complaint to the
company involved. Occasionally, OWASP may be unable to obtain any
cooperation from the company. In extreme cases, OWASP may de-list the
verification provider from the registry in this article. Please note
that we only take complaints on companies that are OWASP Organizational
Supporters.