## How to write verifier job requisitions

If you are responsible for hiring staff to perform application security
verifications, you can use [OWASP Application Security Verification
Standard
(ASVS)](::Category:OWASP_Application_Security_Verification_Standard_Project "wikilink")
to help write job requisitions. The ASVS defines four levels of
verification that increase in both breadth and depth as one moves up the
levels. Each level requires a different skill set. Job requisitions can
be written by reusing verification level requirements as skill set
requirements. Examples are provided below.

## Example: Verifier, Jr

The OWASP ASVS level 1 requirements can be used to help write a job
requisition for a junior-level software assurance engineer, a.k.a. a
junior-level "verifier":

**Sample Job Description:**

*The ideal candidate will be proficient in basic system administration
and application development, but not necessarily possess experience
performing application security verifications. Perform automated
verification of minimum risk applications. Use automated tools augmented
with manual verification according to OWASP ASVS verification
requirements. Perform manual verification to verify that each automated
finding is correct and not a false positive. Create verification reports
that detail the web application security architecture, and the results
of the verification according to OWASP ASVS reporting requirements.
Define web application security architectures by identifying individual
or groups of source files, libraries, and/or executables. Analyze
multiple instances of vulnerability patterns that can be traced to
single root causes that can be combined into a single risk.*

## Example: Verifier, Mid

The OWASP ASVS level 2 requirements can be used to help write a job
requisition for a middle-level verifier:

**Sample Job Description:**

*The ideal candidate will be proficient in performing application
security verifications, but not necessarily according to the OWASP ASVS.
Perform manual verification of applications that handle personal
transactions, business-to-business transactions, process credit card
information, or process personally identifiable information according to
OWASP ASVS verification requirements. Run automated tools and use just
manual techniques. Use automated tool results to support manual
analysis. Verify that all security controls make decisions using a
whitelist approach and that security controls cannot be bypassed.
Perform manual penetration testing. Perform manual source code review.
Create verification reports that detail the web application security
architecture, and the results of the verification according to OWASP
ASVS reporting requirements. Define web application security
architectures by grouping application components into a high-level
architecture (for example MVC controller components, business function
components, and data layer components). Define components by identifying
individual and groups of source files, libraries, and/or executables.
Analyze multiple instances of vulnerability patterns that can be traced
to single root causes that can be combined into a single risk.*

## Example: Verifier, Sr

The OWASP ASVS level 3 and 4 requirements can be used to help write a
job requisition for a senior-level verifier:

**Sample Job Description:**

*The ideal candidate will provide subject matter expertise in
application security verifications, but not necessarily according to the
OWASP ASVS. Perform design verification of applications that handle
significant business-to-business transactions, including those that
process healthcare information, implement business critical or sensitive
functions, or process other sensitive assets according to OWASP ASVS
verification requirements. Perform internal verification of critical
applications that protect life and safety, critical infrastructure, or
defense functions according to OWASP ASVS verification requirements.
Ensure that security controls themselves are working correctly, and that
security controls are used everywhere within the application that they
need to be used to enforce application-specific policies. Ensure that
secure coding practices were followed. Create verification reports that
detail the web application security architecture, and the results of the
verification according to OWASP ASVS reporting requirements. Define web
application security architectures by grouping application components
into a high-level architecture (for example MVC controller components,
business function components, and data layer components), including
defining the relationships between components and groups of components.
Analyze multiple instances of vulnerability patterns that can be traced
to single root causes that can be combined into a single risk.*

[Category:OWASP Application Security Verification Standard
Project](Category:OWASP_Application_Security_Verification_Standard_Project "wikilink")
[Category:How To](Category:How_To "wikilink")