The Open Web Application Security Project
([OWASP](Main_Page "wikilink")) is the name for all the activities of
the [OWASP Foundation](OWASP_Foundation "wikilink"). The OWASP
Foundation is a
[501(c)(3)](http://www.irs.gov/charities/charitable/article/0,,id=96114,00.html)
non-profit organization incorporated in the United States of America.
OWASP's all-volunteer participants produce free, professional quality,
open-source documentation, tools, and standards. The OWASP community
facilitates conferences, local chapters, articles, and message forums.
Participation in OWASP is free and open to all, as are all the materials
we produce.

## Management

OWASP projects are managed using a collaborative, consensus-based
process. We do not have a hierarchical structure. Rather, different
groups of contributors have different rights and responsibilities in the
organization. OWASP is a meritocracy where these rights and
responsibilities follow from the skills and contributions of
participants. This document outlines our general structure. Individual
projects define their own rules to add additional structure to their
development processes.

## Users

The most important participants are the people who use our
documentation, tools, and standards. The majority of our participants
start out as users and guide their participation from the user's
perspective. Users contribute to the OWASP projects by providing
feedback to project members in the form of bug reports and feature
suggestions. Users participate in the OWASP community by helping other
users on mailing lists and user support forums.

## Project Members

A user who contributes to a project in the form of code or documentation
becomes a project member. They take extra steps to participate in a
project, are active on the project mailing list, participate in
discussions, provide comments, enhancements, documentation, suggestions,
and criticism. Project members are noted in project credits.

## Project and Chapter Leaders

The OWASP Leaders is the group of individuals who take responsibility
for the long-term direction of the projects in their area. There is a
single Project Leader for each project which is commissioned directly by
the OWASP Foundation Board of Directors. Chapter leaders coordinate
activities in their local area. The OWASP Leaders are responsible for
making decisions about technical direction, project priorities,
schedule, and releases. Collectively, the OWASP Leaders can be thought
of as the management of the OWASP Foundation.

## OWASP Board

The OWASP Board provides guidance to the OWASP Leaders on market
direction, fundraising, strategic direction, and vision.

The board for calendar year 2015 is made up of:

  - Chairman: [Tobias Gondrom](User:tgondrom "wikilink")
  - Vice Chairman: [Josh Sokol](User:jsokol "wikilink")
  - Treasurer: [Fabio Cerullo](User:fcerullo "wikilink")
  - Secretary: [Matt Konda](Matt_Konda "wikilink")
  - Board Member: [Andrew van der
    Stock](Andrew_van_der_Stock "wikilink")
  - Board Member: [Michael Coates](User:MichaelCoates "wikilink")
  - Board Member: [Jim Manico](User:Jmanico "wikilink")

## References

[About OWASP](About_OWASP "wikilink")