## The presentation

![Owasp_logo_normal.jpg](Owasp_logo_normal.jpg
"Owasp_logo_normal.jpg")When an enterprise suffers an application
security incident, a whirlwind of activity takes place to triage the
immediate problem. Application and security teams work side-by-side to
identify the damage, implement a quick fix to prevent further losses,
and perform a root-cause analysis to determine why the vulnerability
existed in the first place. Savvy information security teams can
leverage the root-cause analysis as a catalyst to enhance the assessment
of applications and improve an inconsistent and underdeveloped
application security program. However, more often than not, these
fledging improvements can get crushed under the inertia of the
organization. It can be difficult to shift people's attention from the
"quick-fix"¬ù to "fix-the-root-cause" once the initial damage has been
mitigated. The complexities of implementing an application security
program can frustrate even experienced practitioners and the difficulty
in establishing a business case can create stall-out, due to the large
costs that many of these initiatives carry. I will share some
experiences, strategies, and approaches to overcome these challenges and
introduce sustainable and measurable improvements into your application
security program after an incident has occurred.

## The speaker

Cory Scott is a director at Matasano Security, an independent security
research and development firm that works with vendors and enterprises to
pinpoint and eradicate security flaws, using penetration testing,
reverse engineering, and source code review. Prior to joining Matasano,
he was the Vice President of Technical Security Assessment at ABN AMRO /
Royal Bank of Scotland. He also has held technical management positions
at @stake and Symantec. He has presented at Blackhat Briefings, USENIX,
and SANS, and leads the local Chicago OWASP chapter.

[Category:OWASP_AppSec_DC_09](Category:OWASP_AppSec_DC_09 "wikilink")
[Category:OWASP_Conference_Presentations](Category:OWASP_Conference_Presentations "wikilink")