Welcome to the Indianapolis OWASP Local Chapter. The OWASP chapter
meetings are free and open to anyone interested in application security.
Chapter meetings are usually held quarterly, please consult the [Meetup
Page](http://www.meetup.com/indyowasp/) for the date of the upcoming
meeting. If you have never attended a meeting before and you are
interested to attend one in the future please join first the [mailing
list](https://lists.owasp.org/mailman/listinfo/owasp-indianapolis). The
mailing list is also used for sharing application security knowledge
among the local community members. You can also review the [email
archives](https://lists.owasp.org/pipermail/owasp-indianapolis/) to see
what local folks have been talking about.

OWASP is a non profit organization and as such operates thanks to the
volunteering effort of his members as well as on OWASP Membership fees
and sponsorship for financial support of the organization's projects and
activities. Organization memberships & direct donations to OWASP are
fully tax deductible. If you are interested to participate to OWASP
meetings as well as OWASP projects and/or activities, we encourage your
financial support to the chapter as well as to the OWASP organization.

If you are interested to present at one of the chapter meetings please
send an abstract and bio to the chapter chair. Prior to participating to
OWASP please review the Chapter Rules.

## Indianapolis OWASP Chapter Leaders

The chapter leaders are [Todd
Grotenhuis](mailto:todd.grotenhuis@owasp.org), [Carl
Sampson](mailto:carl.sampson@owasp.org), Landon Lewis, and [Damian
Profancik](mailto:damian.profancik@owasp.org).

## Upcoming Meetings

<meetup group="indyowasp" />

__NOTOC__

## About OWASP

The OWASP Foundation is a 501(c)3 non-profit organization incorporated
in the United States of America. OWASP's all-volunteer participants
produce free, professional quality, open-source documentation, tools,
and standards. Consult the [how OWASP
works](http://www.owasp.org/index.php/How_OWASP_Works) web page for more
information about projects and governance.

## OWASP Membership

OWASP is an open source project dedicated to finding and fighting the
causes of insecure software. All of our materials are free and offered
under an open source license, so you do not have to become a member to
use them or participate in our projects, mailing lists, conferences,
meetings or other activities. On the other hand OWASP rely membership
fees and sponsorship to support his activities. There are also unique
benefits to become a corporate member such as the use of OWASP materials
within your organization without the restrictions associated with the
various open source licenses. OWASP individual members also get
discounts to security conferences and other perks. For more information
consult the [OWASP
Membership](http://www.owasp.org/index.php/Membership) web page.

[Category:OWASP Chapter](Category:OWASP_Chapter "wikilink")
[Category:United States](Category:United_States "wikilink")
[Category:Indiana](Category:Indiana "wikilink")