Minutes of the [Global Industry
Committee](Global_Industry_Committee "wikilink") meeting held by
conference call on 5 Jan 2010 at 19:00 GMT.

## Present

  - Rex Booth
  - David Campbell
  - Georg Hess
  - Yiannis Pavlosoglou
  - Colin Watson (Chair)

Apologies were received from Eoin Keary and Dave Wichers (OWASP Board
member representative).

## Discussions, Actions and Results

### Updates on recent activities

RB described the very successful work led by Dan Philpott responding to
NIST's SP 800-37 Revision 1 Final Public Draft. DC explained how this
document provides the whole high-level framework for FISMA regulations
and is therefore very important in the US federal sector. RB suggested
that if we have an opportunity to work with NIST again in the future, DP
is a good person to reach out to and get involved with the efforts.

YP asked about previous NIST responses and why this one was such a
success. DC explained SP 800-37 is much higher profile for ISM of
federal agencies—it doesn't get any more important or visible. DP's
involvement and personal relationship was key.

CW described how a contact made by Dinis Cruz at IBWAS09, the Iberic Web
Application Security conference, led to a conference call with ENISA
staff to discuss future collaboration. CW responded to Dinis's message
to the GIC mailing list and participated in the call.

Actions and results:

  - RB to ask DP whether we he can provide a testimonial from NIST
  - RB to ask AppSec Washington's keynote speaker for a testimonial
  - CW to work with OWASP Cloud ‐ 10 Project to contribute to the
    development of Common Assurance Metrics for ENISA's Cloud Computing
    Information Assurance Framework
  - CW to provide YP with details of the contacts at ENISA
  - CW to remind Dinis about second potential ENISA collaboration
    concerning mobile application security

### GIC structure and outreach

The committee discussed Tom Brennan's
[thoughts](https://lists.owasp.org/pipermail/global_industry_committee/2009-December/000222.html)
on structure for our efforts. GH discussed how the approach might have
to be flexible to match local cultural and vertical market needs and the
degree of OWASP presence. DC highlighted that there are already a number
of very influential sector-specific people within OWASP, but we are not
leveraging that. YP highlighted that there have been a wide range of
local initiatives but there may be opportunities to develop more
sector-specific approaches. The GIC felt that we could stretch ourselves
too thinly if we try to organise too many levels and fragment our
efforts. Where location or sector specific interest groups can be
identified and they are willing to give their time, the GIC will help
organise and promote these.

GIC has been relatively reactive rather than proactive in our outreach
efforts in 2009.

1\. Need to develop our approach and strategy together with outreach
materials suitable for non-IT and non-security audience identifying the
benefits OWASP offers.

2\. Identify influential people we already know either within OWASP or
in our own contacts, who we can approach in important sectors to trial
the approach with.

3\. Learn from the experience to develop our resources and approach.

The GIC welcomed EK's ideas of a more formal, less grass roots, more
professional, industry-specific event, perhaps aimed at (non IT) C-level
in one sector vertical. The opportunity to spread the word would be good
if we can have the right type of materials for the potential audience
and if the target group can be convinced to attend. The right approach,
strategy and materials would be needed. If OWASP doesn't have enough
traction, and there is low attendance, this would undermine the success
and OWASP's reputation - could participation at some other
organisation's event/conference be a better way to achieve adequate
attendance? Sectors might be energy, financial (banking/insurance),
government, health or PCI. Are there influential people in these sectors
already involved in OWASP who we can use to help develop a plan?

Actions and results:

  - \[all\] Discuss with EK his ideas further
  - \[unallocated\] Identify significant organisations (e.g. PCI DSS)
    and who OWASP's key contact points in those organisations are, and
    who in OWASP is nurturing the relationship
  - YP to create a short slide deck providing an overview of OWASP (with
    input from Education and Membership committees)
  - Each GIC member to identify a sector to target in their own
    location. Possibly:

`  RB: Government (NIST)`
`  DC: Electronic commerce (Secure POS Vendor Alliance)`
`  GH: Financial (major German bank)`
`  YP: Education/professional`
`  CW: Government (FSA)`

### Position statements

GH raised the subject of creating position statement (e.g. on recent
court case) and Jeff's comments on the OWASP Leaders list. The view was
that any committee could write a statement, but if framed in this way it
would need approval from the board. Note: Dinis Cruz had mentioned
position statements in Poland this year.

### Other

CW thanked Grant Thornton for providing the conference call facilities.

DC will publish the MP3 recording of the conference call on the GIC wiki
page.

## Next Meeting

Date of the next meeting to be decided. An announcement will be made
through the [mailing
list](http://lists.owasp.org/mailman/listinfo/global_industry_committee)
and on the [Global Industry
Committee](Global_Industry_Committee "wikilink") page.

Return to [Global Industry
Committee](Global_Industry_Committee "wikilink") or [Global Committee
Pages](Global_Committee_Pages "wikilink").