## Roll Call

Global Industry Committe Call: April 8, 2011 at 16:00 UTC/GMT

Present:

  - Joe Bernik (Chair)
  - Sarah Baso (Secretary)
  - Nishi Kumar
  - David Campbell
  - Kate Hartmann (OWASP Director of Operations)
  - Rex Booth
  - Lorna Alamri
  - Mateo Martinez
  - Colin Watson

Absent:

  - Mauro Flores
  - Georg Hess
  - Eoin Keary
  - Alexander Fry

## Discussion, Action, Results

### Budget Update

  - SB - Board approved 1/2 of our budget ($24,500) on Monday's meeting
    and will decide on the other half within a couple of weeks.

### AppSecEU

  - SB - Industry Committee hosting industry breakout sessions. Who is
    going from GIC? Who do we need to send invites out to? What is our
    game plan?
  - CW and EK already attending. RB, NK, and LA are all interested in
    attending if GIC will sponsor.
  - JB - we should plan on sending RB and NK based on their current
    Industry iniatives (CISO survey and GIC outreach presentation). We
    could maybe send LA depending on her proposed ROI. JB and LA to have
    follow-up conversation on this.
  - SB to follow up and get list of attendees from Fabio and Eoin, from
    there we can figure out who to get involved/invite for breakout
    sessions.

### OWASP Panel at Brighttalk AppSec Summit

  - DC participated in panel talking about OWASP along with Justin
    Clarke, Dennis Grove, and Derek Brink - approx. 80 attendees and
    session is archived online and available for those who want to check
    it out.
  - NKhas agreed to put together a ppt for the GIC to use in outreach
    efforts. She is looking for feedback on what committee members want
    in the presentation, and will follow up with an email to the GIC.
    Also, after she puts together a finished product in the upcoming
    weeks, she will send a draft to rest of committee for review.

### Surveys

  - Monthly subscription to SurveyMonkey has been purchased for
    $23.99/month. We expect to continue with this for 6 months to post
    the GASS survey put together by EK. SB has posted this survey to
    SurveyMonkey and is awaiting feedback from EK before sending it to
    rest of committee for review.

<!-- end list -->

  - RB is putting together another survey based on idea started at the
    Global Summit in Portugal. This survey is CISO focused and will be
    delivered during face time with various industry personnel (seeking
    to utilize opportunities we wouldn't otherwise have).
  - RB is in the process of putting together a project plan and will
    send to GIC in the next couple of weeks. The survey itself is more
    long term (not a month or two).
  - RB's employer - Grant Thornton - has offered to sponsor the survey.
    They will pay to be an organizational/corporate OWASP sponsor ($5000
    of which the GIC will receive 40% or $2000). Also Grant Thornton
    will be responsible for the back end analysis - delivering the
    results and outcomes publication. In exchange they would like their
    logo on the front cover of the survey. For an example see Aspect
    Security's sponsorship of the [ESAPI
    project](:Category:OWASP_Enterprise_Security_API "wikilink").
  - No committee member concerns vocalized at this time.
  - RB will follow up with Kate Hartmann on payment logistics and
    possible contract/agreement with Grant Thornton.

### Other Organizational Supporters

  - DC spoke with a contact regarding possibility of Google becoming a
    OWASP corporate sponsor. With Grant Thornton's corporate
    sponsorship, there is a clear tangible value for the sponsorship,
    but what can OWASP or the GIC provide/offer to Google as a ROI. The
    GIC needs to think about what we could offer Google and other
    companies who we want to bring in as sponsors and hope to get
    involved in the organization. $5000 is a relatively small amount for
    these orgs and we should not be shy about asking them to support.
  - Committee should think about this and we will discuss further at
    next meeting.

### New GIC Member

  - NK was previously approved as GIC committee member, she has resigned
    from GEC so now can be an official voting member of GIC. Please
    welcome her\!

### New GIC Mission Statement

  - SB - we need to have a vote on the new GIC mission statement: To
    expand the engagement of OWASP and its mission amongst the public
    and private sector verticals, through outreach; including
    presentations, development of position papers and collaborative
    efforts. The Global Industry Committee serves as the voice of OWASP
    within the public and private sector and the channel through which
    OWASP aligns its efforts to the demands of the market.

<!-- end list -->

  - SB to send out email to committee members for an official vote.

### Committee Governance

  - SB - The Conferences Committee has put together a basic committee
    governance structure:
    <http://www.owasp.org/index.php/Global_Conferences_Committee_Governance>
    Can we adopt a slightly modified (to fit the GIC's initiatives)
    version? What changes would people like to see?
  - NK put together a version of this for the Education Committee and
    thinks it is a good idea for us to follow this same model.
  - SB to format version for GIC and send out to Committee for comment
    and vote.

### Lucas Ferreira's Open Letter to the Brazilian Government

  - Lucas's open letter to the Brazilian Government - CW has provided
    some feedback on the letter and MF (as well as Lucas) has asked for
    the support of the GIC as a whole.
  - DC - this is just the sort of project that the GIC should be doing,
    he is in support.
  - CW - thinks it would be good to have support from other Brazilian
    OWASP chapters as well.
  - SB - to follow up with Lucas let him know that we understand he is
    following up with other Brazilian chapters, in the mean time GIC
    will circulate document. We hope to have a unified statement
    /support to provide the document soon.
      - The original version (in Portuguese) is available here:
        <https://docs.google.com/a/owasp.org/viewer?a=v&pid=explorer&chrome=true&srcid=0B80Pq13j4HaqYTJlYjYyMjQtZGIyZS00NGY2LTlmOTMtZDUyMDk5MzUzYmEx&hl=en&authkey=CIi7r5EP>
      - A Google translated version is here:
        <https://docs.google.com/a/owasp.org/document/d/1pWNIlMvbl9DueibfrETIRZBj4qxKLjz6DgavTxnYNDQ/edit?hl=en&authkey=CNOWjaQL>

### FSIAC Summit

  - [FSISAC
    Summit](http://www.fsisac.com/events/spring_conference/2011/) - May
    2. JB plans to attend and arrive a day early to promote OWASP and
    the GIC mission. He will follow up after the event with the
    committee.

### Jeff Williams' email on outreach to other communities

  - [Jeff's email to OWASP leaders
    yesterday](https://lists.owasp.org/pipermail/owasp-leaders/2011-April/005071.html)
    re: Outreach --\> Should GIC play a role in this effort?
  - CW - other OWASP leaders already involved including Dave Wichers and
    John Wilander (with Developers Group), not sure the GIC has the
    bandwidth to take this on.
  - JB - table this discussion for later.

### National Volunteer Week

  - April 10-16 is National Volunteer Week -- What can the GIC do to
    leverage this and promote our efforts? How can we raise awareness of
    the great things we are doing globally?
      - The OWASP Foundation is a 99.9% volunteer driven organization\!
        Letâ€™s take this time to recognize those volunteers who have
        dedicated their time and talent to making the universe safer for
        the rest of us.
      - Stats: Mailing list of 25,000, 135 active projects, 70 active
        chapters globally, volunteer organized conferences on every
        continent, committees, influencing education and government
  - SB - All committee members are encouraged to use this opportunity to
    promote OWASP as well as the GIC -- blog, tweet and whatever other
    social media you use can be a chance to spread the word.
  - No comments from other committee members.

### Open Form

  - No other new business or comments.

## Next Meeting

TBD

  - \+1 877 534 8500 or International +1 513 534 8500
  - Passcode 410105 \#

## Summary

### Post-Meeting Deliverables for SB

  - SB to follow up and get list of attendees from Fabio and Eoin, from
    there we can figure out who to get involved/invite for breakout
    sessions.
  - SB to send out email regarding new GIC mission statement to
    committee members for an official vote.
  - SB to format version of GCC's committee governance doc for GIC and
    send out for comment and vote.
  - SB - to follow up with Lucas let him know that we understand he is
    following up with other Brazilian chapters, in the mean time GIC
    will circulate document. We hope to have a unified statement
    /support to provide the document soon.

### Deliverables for others

  - NK has agreed to put together a ppt for the GIC to use in outreach
    efforts. She is looking for feedback on what committee members want
    in the presentation, and will follow up with an email to the GIC.
    Also, after she puts together a finished product in the upcoming
    weeks, she will send a draft to rest of committee for review.
  - RB to send out Survey Project Plan to GIC in the next couple weeks.
  - All Committee Members
      - Review (if have not already) Lucas Ferreira's Open Letter to
        Brazilian Government
      - Consider/come up with ideas what GIC or OWASP can offer as a ROI
        to potential corporate sponsors such as Google.
      - Consider new Committee Governance Plan
      - Vote on new GIC mission Statement

### Update: Record of Mission Statement Vote

Vote yes or no to adopt new mission statement for GIC.

  - Joe Bernik- YES
  - Lorna Alamri- <no vote received>
  - Rex Booth-YES
  - Georg Hess-<no vote received>
  - Eoin Keary-Yes
  - David Campbell-YES
  - Colin Watson - YES
  - Alexander Fry-YES
  - Nishi Kumar-YES
  - Mauro Flores-YES
  - Mateo Martinez-YES

Return to [Global Industry
Committee](Global_Industry_Committee "wikilink") or [Global Committee
Pages](Global_Committee_Pages "wikilink").