__NOTOC__

Return to [Global Industry
Committee](Global_Industry_Committee "wikilink")

| colspan="4" align="center" style="background:\#4058A0; color:white" | <font color="white">**ACTIVITY IDENTIFICATION** |
| ------------------------------------------------------------------- | ----------------------------------------------- |
| style="width:15%; background:\#7B8ABD" align="center"               | **Activity Name**                               |
| style="width:25%; background:\#7B8ABD" align="center"               | **Short Description**                           |
| style="width:25%; background:\#7B8ABD" align="center"               | '''Related Projects '''                         |
| style="width:25%; background:\#7B8ABD" align="center"               | **Email Contacts & Roles**                      |

| colspan="4" align="center" style="background:\#4058A0; color:white" | <font color="white">**ACTIVITY SPECIFICS** |
| ------------------------------------------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------ |
| style="width:25%; background:\#7B8ABD" align="center"               | **Objectives**                             |
| style="width:25%; background:\#7B8ABD" align="center"               | **Deadlines**                              |
| style="width:25%; background:\#7B8ABD" align="center"               | **Status**                                 |
| style="width:25%; background:\#7B8ABD" align="center"               | **Resources**                              |
|                                                                     |                                            |

## Result

The final report was published on 16 June 2009:

> *Dear All*
>
> *The final Digital Britain Report was published this afternoon and the
> text and other information about the Report can be found on: [Digital
> Britain Final
> Report](http://www.culture.gov.uk/what_we_do/broadcasting/5631.aspx)*
>
> *We are very grateful to all stakeholders for the input we have had on
> Digital Britain issues which has helped to shape the final Report.*

It is hoped that ideas and concepts from OWASP's comments on the interim
report (see below) have been incorporated into the sections on High
Level Cyber Security Personal Digital and Data Security in Chapter 7,
Digital Security and Safety. 260 organisations provided
[responses](http://www.culture.gov.uk/reference_library/publications/6229.aspx)
including other information security organisations. The final report
does place greater emphasis on cyber security, critical infrastructure
protection, the requirement for user trust, security of products,
software patching and data security. One recommendation is to
investigate the formation of a new initiative - the Tripartite Internet
Crime and Security Initiative, between parliamentarians, Government and
business.

## Background

The OWASP Global Industry will be submitting a response on behalf of
OWASP to the interim [Digital Britain
report](http://www.culture.gov.uk/what_we_do/broadcasting/5631.aspx):

What's it about? An action plan to secure the UK's place at the
forefront of innovation, investment and quality in the digital and
communications industries. Why is this relevant to OWASP? The terms of
reference for the report include:

> ` `*`Empowered``   ``and``   ``informed``   ``consumers``   ``and``
>  ``citizens``   ``fully``   ``equipped``   ``to``   ``take``
>  ``advantage``   ``of``   ``the``   ``opportunities``
>  ``convergence``   ``brings.`*

> ` `*`Internet:``   ``looking``   ``at``   ``a``   ``range``   ``of``
>  ``issues``   ``affecting``   ``internet``   ``users,``   ``such``
>  ``as``   ``user``   ``security``   ``and``   ``safety``   ``and``
>  ``a``   ``workable``   ``approach``   ``to``   ``promoting``
>  ``content``   ``standards.`*

and from the interim report:

> *We need to ensure that UK internet users can operate with security
> and confidence.*

but the principles list only relate to privacy, personally identifiable
information and illegal material.

In particular we would like to provide input to section 5.3 Online
Safeguards. Our drafts have been created in conjunction with members of
the London and Scotland chapters mailing lists and draw heavily on
information already published on the OWASP website. However, the
language and focus relate specifically to the context of the report. For
example, we have avoided using the word "vulnerability" since
"vulnerable groups" is currently heavily used in the document, and use
"defects" instead. OWASP is referred to in the third person, and "we"
and "our" are reserved for society in general.

Further comments are welcome up until submission last thing on 11th
March 2007 (GMT).

## Submission Response

*Latest first*

### Final version

Final version uploaded 11th March 2009
![Image:Owasp-digital-britain-interim.pdf‎](Owasp-digital-britain-interim.pdf‎
"Image:Owasp-digital-britain-interim.pdf‎")

*Text version:*

#### Open Web Application Security Project (OWASP) Contribution to Digital Britain Report

The UK Government has commissioned a report on Digital Britain
concerning how to place Britain at the forefront of the global digital
economy. The report's Steering Board is drawing on expertise from across
Government, industry and regulators and has invited further
contributions since publication of the interim report on January 29th
2009. The Open Web Application Security Project (OWASP)1 has created
this submission as a contribution to the report. It has been
co-ordinated by OWASP's Global Industry Committee2 in consultation with
OWASP's UK chapters in London3 and Scotland4.

#### Discussion

Introduction

-----

OWASP believes good application security is vital to underpin the
digital economy and safeguard users.

Fraud

-----

UK Credit and Debit Card fraud is a prime “growth industry” for
criminals; up 26% in 2007 (stats for 2008 not out yet)5. There is
evidence too of a move away from cardholder present fraud, to more
internet-based attacks—the main growth being in card-not-present (CNP)
fraud, up 37% in 20076. With the introduction of chip and pin in 2006,
there has been a further shift in criminals’ focus towards transactions
where the cardholder is not present; specifically online. This, coupled
with the increasing amount of banking and commerce conducted
electronically means that the need for secure web applications is
greater than ever.

Malware

-----

Distribution of malicious code including viruses, worms, Trojans and
spyware, collectively known as malware, used to be mainly undertaken
through electronic mail. Spyware and phishing attacks are increasing in
particular7. It is clear that these attacks are now motivated by
monetary gain via an underground economy and criminal organisations8.

Attacks against applications (e.g. websites and web applications) are
the main area in which these sort of attacks are now being carried out9.
To counter this, it is crucial that future applications are designed
with the most common risks in mind.

Data Loss

-----

The protection of personally identifiable information, intellectual
property and business information is a concern of most organisations,
families and individuals. But there are now new ways for information
loss, including theft, to occur through digitally connected networks.
Web applications are being used to provide access to data that until
recently would have been located only deep within an organisation's
security perimeter. Now data has effectively been moved outside these
defences and is no longer provided adequate protection. It is very
difficult to make web applications completely secure, but the many
incidents documented illustrate that they are not nearly secure
enough10.

Infrastructure

-----

Cyberspace and physical space are increasingly intertwined; physical
systems are increasingly controlled or enabled by software. Applications
serve as primary points of entry that attackers may attempt to use to
gain access to systems and/or data11. We are relying on digital channels
and applications for commercial12 and critical national
infrastructure13. The ever-increasing threats to information systems are
constantly evolving but reducing defects can prevent or minimise the
severity of cyber attacks, and improve the likelihood of successful
recovery.

Trust

-----

The Internet and other digital channels are fast becoming the one thing
we cannot live without. People are relying on the these channels for fun
and education; organisations are relying on these channels to do
business; government is engaging with citizens through these channels.
But the Internet and other digital channels are insecure. To develop a
vibrant digital economy, we need to build trust, and reduce distrust14.
Without public confidence in the digital systems and processes, our own
economic development in these areas will be stifled.

Most computer systems have defects and those exposed on the Internet and
other digital channels are at greater risk of exploitation. This affects
the systems, applications, the data and the users themselves. We are
reliant on the existence of confidence in these channels—without which
the sector could collapse. Countries that can improve the standard of
software security, will benefit from increased trust.

Online Protection

-----

Applications delivered over digital channels (Phone, Internet, TV, etc.)
that contain security flaws put the systems, the data, the users at
risk.

In order to make Britain the safest place to do business online, our
systems and applications must be made more secure. OWASP is working with
programming language teams, browser suppliers, framework developers etc.
to try to make them more secure by default. But, we need to encourage
wider uptake of building security into all stages of the software
development process. If Britain can improve the standard of the
applications by encouraging secure development practices, rigorous
testing and security verification, the digital economy will benefit.

Application security should be approached as a people, process, and
technology problem, because the most effective approaches to application
security include improvements in all of these areas.

OWASP believes that the development of open standards and guidance is
the best way to share knowledge. Organisations that have referenced the
defects identified in OWASP's Top Ten Project15 and used the Guide to
Building Secure Web Applications16, Code Review Guide17 and Testing
Guide18 are using identified good practice to avoid common coding and
deployment defects in the software development process.

OWASP members and other contributors are continually updating these
guides and developing other tools to help developers, testers, auditors
and application owners. They have developed the OWASP Enterprise
Security API (ESAPI) Toolkits19 to help software developers guard
against security-related design and implementation flaws, by providing
ready-built, tested and verified modules for common web programming
languages.

Organisations should implement security governance measures such as
through the adoption of maturity models like one based on the Software
Assurance Maturity Model (SAMM)20. These need to be tailored to the
processes and risks facing each organisation. Once applications are
developed, OWASP is committed to providing ways to assess and compare
the security aspects. An initiative in this area is an open standard
that defines ranges in coverage and levels of rigor to perform
application security verifications—the Application Security Verification
Standard (ASVS)21—which can be used to establish a level of confidence
in the security.

Application Security Principles

-----

Overall, the high level principles OWASP believes to be of importance22
are:

  - Apply defence in depth (complete mediation)
  - Use a positive security model (fail-safe defaults, minimise attack
    surface)
  - Fail securely
  - Run with least privilege
  - Avoid security by obscurity (open design)
  - Keep security simple (verifiable, economy of mechanism)
  - Detect intrusions (compromise recording)
  - Don’t trust infrastructure
  - Don’t trust services
  - Establish secure defaults (psychological acceptability)

These need to be evaluated and interpreted for each particular
application in the context of the business process and with
consideration of the types of data being collected, used, stored and
transmitted.

Digital Britain Report

-----

The online safeguards already identified to protect vulnerable groups
and provide informed consent for adults are important. Some of the
issues relating to vulnerable groups are facilitated through the use of
insecure websites, so improvements in application security also have a
knock-on effect in these areas.

However fraud, distribution of malware and data loss can affect anyone.
We need to encourage all types of organisations in the UK to identify
and adopt good information security governance practices, and in
particular ensure their applications are built and evaluated with
security in mind.

#### Specific suggested changes and additions to the Interim report

Section 4.2 Driving Universal Connectivity: Take-up

-----

General

Add a new sentence in the third paragraph after “great content and great
services.”: “The content and services must not expose the users, systems
and data to un-necessary risk.”.

Action 21

Insert “safe, secure and” before “designed for ease of use”.

Section 5.1 Education and Skills

-----

General

Add a new paragraph after the paragraph relating to the TSB,
“Development of digital work-skills requires the appreciation of
information security as an aspect underpinning Britain's digital
economy. This digital economy relies on trust and the sector can be
undermined by lack of security in any part.”.

Section 5.3 Online Safeguards

-----

General

The issues discussed above could contribute to the introduction of
section 5.3

Tiers

The suggested four tiers of content and information, should be expanded
to five. The extra tier is “material potentially harmful to everyone”
that would include the likes of malware and web pages/applications that
contain security defects which could allow damage to a user, their
systems or their data.

Principles

Add a new bullet point “Secure, trusted digital commerce” to the
existing three items.

Supporting Guidelines

Add a new bullet point “a safer online experience through the
encouragement and uptake of secure software development practices on
which OWASP provides a lead”.

Action Points

The action points will no doubt be reviewed in the light of additional
input since publication of the interim report.

A new action point could address the need to encourage the selection and
adoption of secure software design, development, testing and
verification methodologies, and for Governmental organisations, and
others, to require verification of the security of their digital
applications. Three government organisations could be of particular
importance in this area. The Central Office of Information23 is a key
organisation in the research and development of standards for government
websites24; the Information Commissioner's Office25 is particularly
active in information privacy matters; the Centre for the Protection of
National Infrastructure26 provides integrated security advice to the
businesses and organisations which make up the UK national
infrastructure.

Digital applications found to be lacking in adequate security undermine
the confidence in the whole UK digital economy and some of these impact
on the robustness of the critical national infrastructure. Encouragement
to adopt good application security practices and standards, and
incentives to improve security, or reduce defects, would support a safer
.UK digital economy.

#### About OWASP

OWASP is a global open community dedicated to enabling organizations to
develop, purchase, and maintain applications that can be trusted. OWASP
builds documents, tools, teaching environments, guidelines, checklists,
and other materials to help organisations improve their capability to
produce secure code. All of the OWASP tools, documents, forums, and
chapters are free and open to anyone interested in improving application
security.

OWASP was formed in 2001, in an entirely organic fashion, when a group
of security professionals came to realise how terribly insecure the way
we develop our web applications was. The initial goal was deemed to be
modest: write a guide for developers, which would document secure
software development practices. While the initial effort was meant to
last a few weeks, it came out to several hundred pages. When released,
the OWASP Guide to Building Secure Web Applications was an instant
success.

OWASP is a place where good people gather to help increase the awareness
of the web application security problems in applications. It is a
grass-roots effort, with the driving force being the people who are
dealing with these problems every day, and wanting to lend a hand to
change the situation for the better. The OWASP Foundation is a
not-for-profit entity that ensures the project's long-term success.

OWASP has over 130 local chapters around the world including two in the
UK.

OWASP's projects are widely referenced. For example, the OWASP Guide to
Building Secure Web Applications is referred to in the Payment Card
Industry Data Security Standard (PCI DSS)27. OWASP was shortlisted last
year for the best security initiative award in Nominet's Best Practice
Challenge28.

#### References

Note: OWASP does not endorse commercial products or services.

1.Open Web Application Security Project (OWASP) <http://www.owasp.org>

2.OWASP Global Industry Committee
<http://www.owasp.org/index.php/Global_Industry_Committee>

3.OWASP London Chapter <http://www.owasp.org/index.php/London>

4.OWASP Scotland Chapter <http://www.owasp.org/index.php/Scotland>

5.Fraud Abroad Drives Up Card Fraud Losses, APACS, 3 October 2007
<http://www.apacs.org.uk/media_centre/press/03.10.07.html>

6.Card Fraud Facts and Figures, APACS
<http://www.apacs.org.uk/resources_publications/card_fraud_facts_and_figures.html>

7.Information Security Breaches Survey 2008, DBERR, April 2008
<http://www.pwc.co.uk/eng/publications/berr_information_security_breaches_survey_2008.html>

8.Report on the Underground Economy, Symantec, 24 November 2008
<http://eval.symantec.com/mktginfo/enterprise/white_papers/b-whitepaper_underground_economy_report_11-2008-14525717.en-us.pdf>

9.Security Threat Report: 2009, Sophos
<https://secure.sophos.com/security/whitepapers/sophos-security-threat-report-jan-2009-na>

10.Web Hacking Incidents Database, Web Application Security Consortium
<http://www.xiom.com/whid>

11.Considerations for OWASP in Advancing a National Strategy to Secure
Cyberspace, Joe Jarzombek, Director for Software Assurance, National
Cyber Security Division, US Department of Homeland Security, OWASP
AppSec Washington 2005
<http://www.owasp.org/images/a/a0/AppSec2005DC-Joe_Jarzombek-DHS_SwA_Program_Overview.ppt>

12.Electronic Attacks, Centre for the Protection of National
Infrastructure <http://www.cpni.gov.uk/MethodsOfAttack/electronic.aspx>

13.National Risk Register, Cabinet Office
<http://www.cabinetoffice.gov.uk/reports/national_risk_register.aspx>

14.Distrust and Trust in B2C E-Commerce: Do They Differ? McKnight D,
Choudhury V, ACM International Conference Proceeding Series; Vol. 156
Pages: 482-491, 2006

15.Top Ten Project, OWASP
<http://www.owasp.org/index.php/Category:OWASP_Top_Ten_Project>

16.Guide to Building Secure Web Applications, OWASP
<http://www.owasp.org/index.php/Category:OWASP_Guide_Project>

17.Code Review Guide, OWASP
<http://www.owasp.org/index.php/Category:OWASP_Code_Review_Project>

18.Testing Guide, OWASP
<http://www.owasp.org/index.php/Category:OWASP_Testing_Project>

19.Enterprise Security API (ESAPI) Toolkits, OWASP
<http://www.owasp.org/index.php/Category:OWASP_Enterprise_Security_API>

20.Software Assurance Maturity Model (SAMM) <http://www.opensamm.org/>

21.Application Security Verification Standard (ASVS), OWASP
<http://www.owasp.org/index.php/ASVS>

22.Principles, OWASP <http://www.owasp.org/index.php/Category:Principle>

23.Central Office of Information <http://www.coi.gov.uk>

24.Web Standards and Guidelines, Central Office of Information
<http://www.coi.gov.uk/guidance.php?page=188>

25.The Information Commissioner's Office <http://www.ico.gov.uk/>

26.Centre for the Protection of National Infrastructure (CPNI)
<http://www.cpni.gov.uk/>

27.Payment Card Industry Data Security Standard (PCI DSS) v1.2
<https://www.pcisecuritystandards.org/security_standards/pci_dss.shtml>

28.Best Practice Challenge 2008 Winners Brochure
<http://www.nominet.org.uk/digitalAssets/34028_Best_Practice_Challenge_winners_booklet.pdf>

### Draft Text version 2

2nd draft uploaded 9th March 2009:
![Image:Owasp-digital-britain-interim-2nd-draft.pdf](Owasp-digital-britain-interim-2nd-draft.pdf
"Image:Owasp-digital-britain-interim-2nd-draft.pdf")

### Draft Text version 1

1st draft uploaded 5th March 2009:
![Image:Owasp-digital-britain-interim-1st-draft-b.pdf](Owasp-digital-britain-interim-1st-draft-b.pdf
"Image:Owasp-digital-britain-interim-1st-draft-b.pdf")

### Initial Comments

Key parts of the draft report, which could relate to application
security, are:

*Page 7* (Box: Five objectives, second item) "A dynamic investment
climate for UK digital content, applications and services, that makes
the UK an attractive place for both domestic and inward investment in
our digital economy".

*Page 13* (Equipping everyone to benefit from Digital Britain) Very few
action points provided in the draft report compared to other sections.
Nothing for 'online safeguards' yet.

*Pages 36-38* (3 Digital Content 3.1 The Economies of Digital Content)
E-commerce growth figures / commercial challenges. No mention of trust.

*Pages 59 and 61* (4.2 Driving Universal Connectivity: Take-up) User
demand / Ease of use. No mention of safety/security.

*Page 66* (5.2 Media Literacy) "...need to ensure a population that is
confident and empowered to access, use and create digital media." Also
heavy emphasis on child protection, but not other users.

*Page 69* (5.3: Online Safeguards) Whole section is important but
currently focuses almost only on illegal and adult content.

*Page 74* (Glossary)

Return to [Global Industry
Committee](Global_Industry_Committee "wikilink")