Minutes of the [Global Industry
Committee](Global_Industry_Committee "wikilink") meeting held by
conference call on 17 August 2010 at 18:30 GMT.

## Present

  - David Campbell
  - Yiannis Pavlosoglou
  - Colin Watson

Apologies:

  - Alexander Fry
  - Georg Hess

## Discussions, Actions and Results

### Intergroup communication

Chair and other members should hold and be able to get in touch with
each GIC member within 12 hours.

Decisions (Action by):

  - All GIC members have to update their personal wiki page by the end
    of this month (All)
  - Phone numbers to be exchanged between GIC members (All)
  - AF needs to join the mailing list (AF)

### Extended efforts

The GIC are spearheading an effort of getting in touch with a number of
other industries. Often, we are the first point of official contact with
OWASP. We are still volunteers, but certain things are expected from us,
in a timely fashion.

Decisions (Action by):

  - All the above hold and timely responses for GIC members are
    considered important (All)
  - Encourage 2-3 additional people to join the committee who can make
    an active contribution (DC,YP,CW)
  - Discuss/develop further the idea of having a list of OWASP
    associates or sector/subject matter experts (SMEs) who can work with
    GIC leads when approached by other parties, or need to respond to
    particular issues (CW)

### Grounds for expulsion from the GIC

Increased visibility of the GIC comes with more accountability.

Discussed whether there should be an expected:

  - no. of outreaches a GIC member is meant to perform a year/quarter,
  - no. of OWASP presentations a GIC member should target to give in the
    course of a quarter/year
  - communication from a GIC member to other committee members

Decisions (Action by):

  - Not to settle on numbers and particulars regarding just the efforts
    within the GIC, but within OWASP as a whole. This includes chapter
    efforts, conferences, projects, publications, etc. (CW)

### Committee chair

CW was appointed "by acclaim" a year ago, and said at the time he would
accept the role for a year. Aim to have a new chair in place by 1 Nov in
advance of next summit. CW would like to continue as a member.

Decisions (Action by):

  - all existing GIC members are eligible (-)
  - send an email to GIC members regarding succession process for chair
    (CW)
  - if no-one else can be found, CW would be happy to continue (-)

### Ongoing and upcoming activities

The activity record at [Global Industry
Committee](Global_Industry_Committee "wikilink") is almost up-to-date.

Decisions (Action by):

  - Add YP's new outreach to BCS ITNow magazine (YP)
  - Add DC as GIC co-ordinator on EK's OWASP Annual Application Security
    Survey concept (DC)
      - approach US contacts (RB,JB)
      - contact UK chapters (YP)
      - approach UK contacts (CW,YP)

## Next Meeting

Date of the next meeting to be decided. An announcement will be made
through the [mailing
list](http://lists.owasp.org/mailman/listinfo/global_industry_committee)
and on the [Global Industry
Committee](Global_Industry_Committee "wikilink") page.

Return to [Global Industry
Committee](Global_Industry_Committee "wikilink") or [Global Committee
Pages](Global_Committee_Pages "wikilink").