## Roll Call

Global Industry Committee Call: May 13, 2011 at 18:00 UTC/GMT

Present:

  - Joe Bernik (Chair)
  - Sarah Baso (Secretary)
  - Mateo Martinez
  - Kate Hartmann
  - Lorna Alamri
  - Alexander Fry
  - Nishi Kumar
  - Tom Brennan
  - Jerry Hoff

Absent:

  - Mauro Flores
  - Rex Booth
  - Georg Hess
  - Eoin Keary
  - Colin Watson
  - David Campbell

## Open GIC Action Items

### Information on GIC Working Sessions at AppSec EU

  - 3 sessions on Friday, June 10 2011 (second day of the conference)
      - 1st <session:GIC> Outreach Presentation 10:15-11:00 am,
        presented by Nishi Kumar
        The purpose for this session is to help organizations understand
        why application security is important and how OWASP can help in
        making their applications more secure. It will give them an
        opportunity to learn what documentation, training, architecture,
        tools and infrastructure is available. The best part is all
        these materials are free. OWSAP provides the solution for their
        application security needs. We are also looking to improve
        collaboration by helping get more organization participating in
        OWASP projects. This will help us ensure that we account for the
        various needs of industry and develop well vetted best
        practices.
        [Security For Managers And Executives - Industry Outreach
        Presentation](http://code.google.com/p/owasp-cbt-project/downloads/list)Â 
      - 2nd session: Gathering Information - Industry CISO Survey
        12:05-12:50 pm, presented by Rex Booth
      - 3rd session: Industry Roundtable discussion 3:00-3:45 pm,
        presented by Sarah Baso with remote participation by Joe
        Bernik
        Discussion format based on questions such as: How can GIC become
        more relevant and work to achieve a better working relationship
        with industry verticals? What ROI would companies find valuable
        when sponsoring/supporting OWASP?

<!-- end list -->

  - Goal(s) of the GIC sessions at AppSec EU: As also discussed on the
    last two calls is to overall work toward achieving the GIC's 2011
    committee initiatives -- most importantly 1) Engage in discussion
    with the appsec community (and various industry verticals) to learn
    how GIC can become more relevant in the context of Industry. 2)
    Communicate with people not currently involved in OWASP about what
    OWASP and OWASP Tools can offer their organizations and determine
    what things are not currently being offered to them that would make
    them interested in sponsoring/supporting OWASP.

<!-- end list -->

  - Eoin also will be rolling out his GASS Survey (on survey monkey)
    during the conference and we hope to work that in to one of the
    sessions. SB putting together a flyer to market the survey (and link
    to the survey).

### Discussion items for Call

AppSec EU working sessions:

  - Update from NK on her presentation and session:
      - A few more minor updates to make before working session
        including removing a few slides so the time for the presentation
        is 45 min.
      - She also plans to hand out a flyer (and other OWASP materials
        such as Live CD if possible) summarizing her presentation and
        what she/the GIC/OWASP can offer companies. SB putting together
        flyer and then JH and NK will review.
      - Target audience is industry leaders and C/Executive level
        employees
      - Goal of presentation/session is to focus on the business impact
        of OWASP/OWASP tools. Comments - need to make sure presentation
        is not too technical as many of the individuals who are targeted
        with the presentation will not have a high degree of technical
        background. Should be general takeaways.

<!-- end list -->

  - Update from Rex on his CISO survey and session - N/A (Not on call)

<!-- end list -->

  - What questions (if any) should be included in the roundtable
    discussion?
      - What does OWASP need to do to become more relevant?
      - Why aren't you an OWASP member/corporate supporter?
      - Why don't you use/aren't you interested in the current resources
        made available by OWASP? Not relevant? Too generalized?
      - Would industry specific information be helpful/relevant/useful
        for you? EX: financial industry information

<!-- end list -->

  - Other miscellaneous thoughts and discussion points:
      - LA - companies are often interested in customizing documentation
        tools, but are restricted by the OWASP ["share back"
        policy](http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/3.0/)
      - TB - Outreach efforts/presentations need to be scalable --
        global presentations translated into many languages
      - One ROI we could suggest to companies is that they can
        contribute/sponsor a specific project --\> They can work with
        the project leader to create a roadmap outlining expectations of
        both parties and then a commitment to maturation of project
      - NK - Not clear on difference between two different surveys GIC
        is currently working on. Eoin's GASS is a general survey for
        anyone interacting with appsec in their company. Rex's proposed
        survey is very targeted/specific to CISOs

<!-- end list -->

  - Joe Bernik - feedback from FS-ISAC conference
      - OWASP does not have a sufficient level of governance or stable
        governance to get targeted value. We need to look to orgs such
        as ISC2, ISSA, etc. for their governance structures. Right now
        we are too informal and appear to have a lack of commitment
        (perception is key).
      - Without CEO, changing this industry perception maynot be
        possible. Additionally, the CEO or head of operations needs to
        be visible in industry.

<!-- end list -->

  - Working with Membership Committee to gain Corporate
    members/sponsors:
      - GIC working sessions (especially roundtable discussion) will
        hopefully help us understand what we are missing.
      - Goal of working session(s) will be to come up with written
        documentation/proposal for targeting new corporate members. This
        may include a new level for corporate support ($2500
        Silver/$5000 Gold), discounted fee/admission to events, access
        to documentation.
      - SB to schedule meeting with GMC and GIC at end of June

## Next Meeting

TBA