# 2013 Application Security Survey - Draft

## Page 1. Introduction

Thank you for taking the time to participate in the Global CISO
Application Security Survey, created by the Open Web Application
Security Project (OWASP). There is no question that application security
has become a serious concern in almost every industry. We created this
survey to provide you with an opportunity to compare your organization
with others on important application security issues and gain insights
for making key decisions. The GASS questionnaire consists of 26
questions concerning application security. They relate to investments
and challenges, threats and risks, tools and technology, and governance
and control within your organization. Your participation in responding
to this questionnaire should require less than 20 minutes of your time.
At the conclusion of the survey, the combined results will be publicly
available on the owasp.org website. This survey can be conducted by
keeping your profile completely anonymous. In case you are willing to
provide your contact information, we will make sure that personal
identifiable individual information won't be either disclosed or
published responses in the survey report.

## Page 2. Instructions

All responses in this survey are optional, but for the completeness of
the report, please try to respond to all questions in the questionnaire.
Please feel free to add additional information and views from colleagues
in your organization.

Deadline for submission of the completed survey is **31 January, 2013.**

Thank you for your participation\!

## Page 3. Threats and Risks - Information Security

1\. Given the current threat landscape and the economic environment, do
you perceive a change in the threats facing your organization? (choose
all that apply) \[1-3, increase, same, decrease, don't know:

  - A. External attacks or fraud(e.g., phishing, website attacks)
  - B. Internal attacks or fraud (e.g., abuse of privileges, theft of
    information)
  - C. No changes noted

2\. Targeting (Infrastructure vs. Applications): In the your current
threat landscape, what are the main areas of risk for your organization
in % out of 100% in total:

  - A.Infrastructure %
  - B.Application %
  - C.Other %

3\. Compared to 12 months ago, do you see a change in these areas:
\[1-3, increase, same, decrease, don't know):

  - A.Infrastructure
  - B.Application
  - C.Other

## Page 4. Threats and Risks (continued) - Application Security

4\. From the following list, which are the top five sources of
application security risk within your organization? (Please mark your
top area of risk with a "1," your second with a "2," your third with a
"3," your fourth with a "4," and your fifth with a "5"):

  - A.Insecure source code development
  - B.Lack of awareness of application security issues within the
    organization
  - C.Poor/inadequate testing methodologies
  - D.Poor change control and version control procedures
  - E.Lack of budget to support application security initiatives
  - F.Poor deployment and configuration
  - G.Programs and projects (e.g. budget overruns, delays, poor quality)
  - H.Staffing (e.g.lack of security skills within team)
  - I.Third-party suppliers and outsourcing (e.g., lack of security,
    lack of assurance)
  - L.Other (please specify)

5\. Regarding your top five areas of application security risk (above),
which of the following statements best describes your organization's
planned investment in these areas in the coming 12 months? (choose one):

  - A.Increasing level of investment planned
  - B.Decreasing level of investment planned
  - C.Relatively constant level of investment planned

## Page 5. Investments and Challenges

6\. Which of the following statements best describes your organization's
annual investment in security? (choose one) Three columns: Decreasing
... / Relatively constant ... / :

  - A.Increasing as a percentage of total expenditures
  - B.Application Security is
  - C.Infrastructure Security is
  - D.Others (Security) is

7\. Do you see new threats to web applications negatively impacting your
organisation?

  - A.No
  - B.Yes (If yes, how?)

(Text)

8\. Did your company experience a data breach because of a web
application security incident in the last 12 months?

  - A.No
  - B.Yes (If yes, what was the root cause of the incident, e.g. in
    terms of type of vulnerability or control gaps)

(text)

9\. Is your organization spending more on application security in
response to a breach or security incident related to a web application?
(choose one)

  - A.No
  - B.Yes

## Page 6. Investments and Challenges (continued)

10\. Please indicate your top five application security priorities for
the coming 12 months from the following list. (Specify your top 5
priorities, marking your top priority with a "1," your second priority
with a "2," etc.)

  - A.Application layer vulnerability management technologies and
    processes
  - B.Code review (static analysis of source code to find security
    defects)
  - C.Compliance with regulatory requirements (PCI-DSS, FISMA, etc.)
  - D.Deployment of application security infrastructure (such as web
    application firewalls)
  - E.Recruiting and retaining qualified application security resources
  - F.Secure development lifecycle processes (e.g., secure coding, QA
    process)
  - G.Security assurance for Cloud-based (SaaS, IaaS, PaaS, …) software
    purchased by your organization
  - H.Security assurance for COTS (commercial off-the-shelf) purchases
    by your organization
  - I.Security assurance for software developed by 3rd parties
    (outsourcing)
  - L.Security awareness and training for developers
  - M.Security metrics and reporting
  - N.Security testing of applications (penetration testing)
  - O.Security testing of applications (dynamic analysis, runtime
    observation)
  - P.Others (please specify

## Page 7. Relevance of OWASP

11\. What is the level of significance of OWASP guidance, books and
white papers within your organization? (Scale of 1-5, where 1 is the
"least significant" and 5 is the "most significant")

  - A.Awareness material (e.g. Top-10)
  - B.Application development policy
  - C.Code development guidelines
  - D.Reference to leading practice
  - E.Testing methodologies
  - F.Staff attending local OWASP chapter meetings for information
  - G.Staff attending OWASP AppSec conferences

## Page 8. Relevance of OWASP (continued)

12\. Which of the following OWASP projects has your organization found
useful? (choose all that apply) \[1-3, very useful, somewhat useful, not
useful for us, don't know it\]

  - A.AntiSamy
  - B.Application Security FAQ
  - C.Application Security Verification Standard (ASVS)
  - D.AppSensor
  - E.Cheatsheets
  - F.CISO Guide
  - G.Code Review Guide
  - H.Development Guide
  - I.ESAPI (Enterprise Security API)
  - L.Http Post Tool
  - M.JBroFuzz
  - N.Legal Project
  - O.LiveCD/WTE
  - P.Mod_Security Core Ruleset
  - Q.OpenSAMM
  - R.O2
  - S.OWASP Top-10
  - T.RFP Criteria
  - U.Ruby on Rails Security Guide
  - V.Secure Coding Practices Quick Reference
  - Z.Software Assurance Maturity Methodology (openSAMM)
  - K.Testing Guide
  - X.Webgoat
  - W.WebScarab
  - Y.Zed Attack Proxy (ZAP)
  - J.None. I am not familiar with any OWASP Projects.

Other (please explain)

## Page 9. Challenges for Application Security

13\. What is the level of challenge related to effectively delivering
your organization's application security initiatives for each of the
following? (Scale of 1-5, where 1 is "not a challenge" and 5 is
"significant challenge"), Not a Challenge,Significant Challenge

  - A.Adequate budget
  - B.Availability of skilled resources
  - C.Business uncertainty
  - D.Justifying business case
  - E.Conflicting business requirements
  - F.Emerging technologies (e.g., application vulnerability scanners,
    web application firewalls)
  - G.Level of security awareness by the developers
  - H.Management awareness and sponsorship
  - I.Organizational change
  - L.Regulatory change or uncertainty
  - M.Others (please specify)

## Page 10. Tools and Technology

14\. Does your organization use any specific technology tools to support
the application security management process?

  - A.Yes
  - B.No

15\. Which of the following technology tools does your organization use
or are planned to be implemented by your organization to provide
application security capability? (choose all that apply) Currently in
use, Planned within 12-18 months,No plans to implement

  - A.Web application firewalls
  - B.Source code analyzers
  - C.Runtime analyzers
  - D.Application Vulnerability Scanners
  - E.Desktop Web Application Vulnerability Scanners
  - F.Manual Code Review (e.g., 3rd party experts)
  - G.Other

(please specify other below):

## Page 11. Tools and Technology (continued)

16\. As part of your information security management program, do you...
Currently in use,Planned within 12-18 months,No plans to implement

  - A.use a SDLC (Secure development lifecycle)
  - B.conduct security training
  - C.document and enforce security guidelines
  - D.specify security requirements
  - E.use risk management
  - F.use threat modelling
  - G.specify security requirements
  - H.secure architecture
  - I.use tested common security modules/frameworks
  - L.do code reviews
  - M.testing with test cases for security
  - N.harden the deployment environment
  - O.have a vulnerability management process

## Page 12. Governance and Control

17\. Does your organization have a documented application security
strategy?

  - A.Yes
  - B.No

18\. For how long does this application security strategy plan ahead?

  - A 3 months
  - B 6 months
  - C 1 year,
  - D 2 years,
  - E 3 years,
  - F 5 years+ (circle one)

19\. Your application security strategy: (choose all that apply)

  - A....has been reviewed and updated within the past 12 months
  - B...is aligned with, or integrated into, the organization's business
    strategy
  - C...is aligned with, or integrated into, the organization's IT
    strategy
  - D...outlines our key security activities for the next 12 months

## Page 13. Governance and Control (continued)

20\. Which of the following statements best describes your
organization's application security strategy in regards to the risks
associated with the increased use of social networking, personal
devices, or cloud computing? (choose one)

  - A.Our current application security strategy adequately addresses the
    risks
  - B.We need to modify our strategy to address the new risks
  - C.We need to investigate further to understand the risks
  - D.We do not see any new or increased risks associated with these
    technologies

21\. Has your organization implemented an Application Security
Management System (ASMS) or Maturity Model (e.g., OWASP SAMM) that
covers overall management of application security? (choose one)

  - A.Yes, implemented and formally certified/verified by a third party
  - B.Yes, without verification
  - C.Yes, currently in the process of implementing
  - D.No, but considering it
  - E.No, and not considering it

## Page 14. Governance and Control (continued)

22\. From the following list of application security standards or
frameworks, which are used by your organization? (choose all that apply)

  - A.BSIMM
  - B.Capability Maturity Model Integration (CMMI)
  - C.CLASP
  - D.CobIT
  - E.COSO
  - F.Information Security Forum's (ISF) Standard of Good Practice
  - G.Information Technology Infrastructure Library (ITIL)
  - H.ISO/IEC 27001:2005 27002:2005
  - I.MS SDL
  - L.NIST Handbooks (e.g., the "800 Series")
  - M.Octave
  - N.Open SAMM
  - O.PCI DSS
  - P.Other (please specify)

## Page 15. Governance and Control (continued)

23\. How does your organization assess the quality and effectiveness of
application security? (choose all that apply)

  - A.Internal self assessments by IT or application security function
  - B.Assessments performed by other internal function
  - C.Assessment by external party/third party
  - D.Formal certification to external security standards
  - E.Formal certification to industry security standards (e.g., Payment
    Card Industry Data F.Security Standard)
  - G.Code review and metrics
  - H.No assessments performed

24\. How do you verify that your external partners, service providers or
contractors are protecting your organization's information from an
application security standpoint? (choose all that apply):

  - A.Assessments performed by your organization's application security,
    procurement or internal audit function (e.g., site visits, security
    testing)
  - B.Independent external assessments of partners, vendors or
    contractors
  - C.Self assessments or other certifications performed by partners,
    vendors, or contractors
  - D.No reviews or assessments performed

25\. How you describe your job role/function?

  - A.Chief Operating Officer
  - B.Chief Information Officer
  - C.Chief Application Security Officer
  - D.Chief Security Officer
  - E.Chief Privacy Officer
  - F.Chief Compliance Officer
  - G.Chief Technology Officer
  - H.Chief Risk Officer
  - I.Business Unit Executive/Vice President
  - L.Information Technology Executive
  - M.Application Security Executive
  - N.Network/System Administrator
  - O.Internal Audit Director/Manager
  - P.Other: (please specify)

## Page 16. Governance and Control (Scope of the CISO role)

26\. CISO Functions & Responsibilities: Which of these functions are
within you area of responsibility? (select all the ones that apply to
you)

  - A.Develop, articulate and implement risk management strategy for
    applications
  - B.Develop and implement policies, standards and guidelines for
    application security
  - C.Develop implement, manage and report on application security
    governance processes
  - D.Develop and implement software security activities (e.g. S-SDLC)
    and security testing processes
  - E.Work with executive management, business managers and internal
    audit and legal counsel to define application security requirements
    that can be verified and audited
  - F.Measure and monitor security and risks of web application assets
    within the organization
  - G.Application Vulnerability Management
  - H.Network Security and perimeter defense
  - I.Define, identify and assess the inherent security of critical web
    application assets, assess threats, vulnerabilities, business
    impacts and recommend countermeasures/corrective actions
  - L.Procure new web application processes, services, technologies and
    testing tools for the organization
  - M.Application security training and awareness for information
    security and software development teams
  - N.Develop, articulate and implement continuity planning/disaster
    recovery for web applications
  - O.Investigate and analyze suspected security incidents and data
    breaches and recommend corrective actions

## Page 17: Wishes and suggestions

And last but not least, all your feedback is very important to us and
the community is continuously striving to improve. If you could wish
freely, what kind of OWASP project, guidance or tool would you like to
see in the future that could really improve your daily life and
operation around web and application security?

## Page 18. This Completes the Survey

This completes the survey. We would appreciate if could also provide a
few personal and professional details. This will provide us valuable
information about your industry and position helping us to analyze the
survey data by industry and type of organization. It will also provide
you an opportunity to leave your contact information if you would like
us to follow up with you regarding the survey results. Once again, all
responses are optional and especially your contact data will be treated
as confidential and used only for the evaluation of this survey

A.Yes, I am willing to take a couple more minutes to assist with survey
benchmarking. B.No, I prefer to exit the survey at this point.

## Page 19. Optional: Participant Information

(\*)We reccomend do not type your first name, last name and email in the
survey herein but send it over to the survey's point of contact by email
since this information is considered personal identifiable information
and we would like to be treated as strictly confidential.

  - (\*)Name of person completing survey: (optional, will be treated
    strictly confidential)
  - (\*)Email address: (optional, will be treated strictly confidential
    and only be used to send you a link to the final survey report after
    it's completion)
  - Title of delegate completing survey:
      - Chief Operating Officer
      - Chief Information Officer
      - Chief Application Security Officer
      - Chief Security Officer
      - Chief Privacy Officer
      - Chief Compliance Officer
      - Chief Technology Officer
      - Chief Risk Officer
      - Business Unit Executive/Vice President
      - Information Technology Executive
      - Application Security Executive
      - Network/System Administrator
      - Internal Audit Director/Manager
      - Other: (please specify)

To further refine our survey data by a qualitative component, we would
also like to ask whether you would potentially be open for a 30 minute
confidential phone interview to further refine certain areas and learn
more about your views for future surveys and application security
projects that matter to you. All data will be treated as confidential
and only be used in anonymous and aggregated form.

  - If you are ok with us contacting you for a 30-minute phone
    interview, please provide your email address (\*) (again):

Are you aware of the OWASP CISO guide (link to CISO guide,
<https://www.owasp.org/index.php/Application_Security_Guide_For_CISOs>)
?

  - A No
  - B Yes

Are there specific additional areas you would like us to cover in future
versions of the CISO guide?

  - A No
  - B Yes

(text)

## Page 20. Organization Information

Organization name: (optional) Country: Ownership: (choose one) Public -
traded on stock exchange Private - not traded on stock exchange
Government or non-profit

Total number of employees: (choose one) Less than 1,000 1,000 to 9,999
10,000 to 49,999 50,000 to 100,000 More than 100,000

Annual revenue (in USD): (choose one) Less than $100 million $100
million to $249 million $250 million to $499 million $500 million to
$999 million $1 billion to $9 billion $10 billion to $24 billion More
than $24 billion Not applicable

Industry: (choose one) Aerospace and Defense Airlines Asset Management
Automotive Banking & Capital Markets Chemicals Consumer Products
Government & Public Sector Insurance Media & Entertainment Mining &
Metals Oil & Gas Power & Utilities Professional Firms & Services Real
Estate Retail & Wholesale Technology Telecommunications Transportation
Other: (please specify)

## Page 21. Thank You

Thank you again for your time and considering in completing this survey.
Please contact Tobias Gondrom at tobias.gondrom@owasp.org with any
questions or comments regarding the contents of this survey.