Minutes of the [Global Industry
Committee](Global_Industry_Committee "wikilink") meeting held by
conference call on 18 March 2011 at 17:00 GMT.

## Roll Call

Present:

  - Joe Bernik (Chair)
  - Sarah Baso (Operations)
  - Lorna Alamri
  - Sheriff Koussa
  - David Campbell
  - Kate Hartmann

<!-- end list -->

  - Note – There was confusion due to Daylight Savings Time change on 13
    March in the US. Colin Watson and Jerry Hoff called in but at a
    different time so were not able to participate in the conference
    call.

Absent:

  - Mauro Flores
  - Tony UcedaVelez
  - Alexander Fry
  - Rex Booth
  - Mateo Martinez
  - Nishi Kumar
  - Eoin Keary
  - George Hess
  - Michael Scovetta

## Discussion, Action, Results

### Budget

[Current GIC Budget
for 2011](https://spreadsheets.google.com/ccc?key=0ApZ9zE0hx0LNdEpRbVhBUEljMGpLNnVJa0FHeWZwMkE&hl=en&authkey=CPjLgdwN)

  - Recap from Committee Chairs meeting on 14 March (attended by DC and
    SB): The budget needs to be broken down by priority and initiative
    so that it can be approved in chunks by the Board as money becomes
    available. So, in addition to preparing the overall budget, the GIC
    needs to be prepared to tell the Board what amount of money we will
    need immediate initiatives (such as SurveyMonkey and AppSecEU).
  - JB to reach out to Global Conferences Committee, Fabio, and Eoin –
    work with them re: who attend or participate for GIC outreach
    initiatives.
  - JB to follow up with Fabio and Eoin re: availability and cost of
    rooms for GIC outreach session at AppSec USA.
  - DC to reach out to Robb Mann (Google) re: attending AppSec EU .
  - JB work on budget and prepare it for submission to Kate Hartmann by
    28 March (and review for Board Meeting on 4 April).

### Industry Surveys

  - EK has put a lot of work into his survey and need to make sure that
    it gets going as soon as possible
  - Fees for Survey Monkey to be FIRST PRIORITY on GIC Budget for
    approval. We need $64.99/month for the platinum plan, which will
    allow us to put forth a professional product that is personalized
    for our intended audience.
  - The number of months we will need to keep the survey up is
    undecided. Maybe 2-4 months.
  - RB should put together a proposal of what he wants to do for the
    "metrics" survey, talk to EK in regards to differentiating the two,
    and then report back to the GIC.
  - SB to email Eoin’s survey out to rest of GIC.

### OWASP Points Program

<http://www.owasp.org/index.php/OWASP_Points>

  - Each committee needs to provide Mark Bristow with a list of what
    points should be given to people related to that committee’s
    tasks/roles.
  - SB to email GIC list to see if anyone will take on this project

### Industry PowerPoint Presentation

  - This needs to be tasked out to someone in the committee. Possibly NK
    since she has put together something like this previously for her
    personal use.
  - SB to follow up with NK and see if she will put this together.

### Mateo Martinez’s email request

  - What can we do to help?

*Dear all,*
*I´m writing to you because Anurag is planning a visit to TCS in order
to get their involvement with OWASP and to provide some trainings.*
*TCS is deploying software security in the SDLC around the world so I
think that could be a great case study for OWASP so we should provide
all the support to Anurag to make the presentation.*
*Please your comments and suggestions will be more than welcome.*
*Best regards, Mateo*

  - SB to forward request to rest of GIC, suggest Jerry Hoff’s training
    videos and PowerPoint (to be prepared by NK)

### GIC --New mission

  - New mission statement discussed at last committee chairs meeting,
    still seems to be confusion on roles between GIC and Connections
    Committee. All global committees to reflect on current duties and
    possibly revise mission statement to reflect.
  - KH – there doesn’t seem to be overlap in the actual initiatives
    taken on by Industry and Connections Committees, even though the
    mission statements may seem similar.
  - KH – if GIC wants to take on “outreach” that is fine, but they need
    to make sure to follow through on what they commit to. Also, need to
    differentiate between outreach and advertising. GIC should not (and
    does not plan to) include advertising or press releases.

### Other items

  - LA – we need to talk more about GIC initiatives with AppSec EU.
    Thinks we are putting an unfair burden back to appsec EU.
  - JB to discuss GIC initiatives at AppSec EU with EK.
  - Need to establish goals we want to accomplish at appsec EU. How many
    people, what sectors? DC and JB to heads together and hit list on
    invites.

## Next Meeting

TBD

  - \+1 877 534 8500 or International +1 513 534 8500
  - Passcode 410105 \#

## Summary

### Post-Meeting Deliverables for SB

  - SB to email Eoin’s survey out to rest of GIC.
  - SB to email GIC list to see if anyone will put together relevant
    points for Mark Bristow’s OWASP Points Program.
  - SB to follow up with NK and see if she will put together and GIC
    Outreach PowerPoint.
  - SB to forward MM’s email request to GIC, suggest Jerry Hoff’s
    training videos and PowerPoint (to be prepared by NK)

### Deliverables for others

  - JB to reach out to Global Conferences Committee, Fabio, and Eoin –
    work with them re: who attend or participate in GIC outreach
    initiatives at AppSec EU.
  - JB to follow up with Fabio and Eoin re: availability and cost of
    rooms for GIC outreach session at AppSec EU.
  - DC to reach out to Robb Mann (Google) re: attending AppSec EU .
  - JB work on budget and prepare it for submission to Kate Hartmann by
    28 March (and review for Board Meeting on 4 April).
  - RB should put together a proposal of what he wants to do for the
    "metrics" survey, talk to EK in regards to differentiating the two,
    and then report back to the GIC.
  - Need to establish goals we want to accomplish at AppSec EU. How many
    people, what sectors? DC and JB to heads together and hit list on
    invites.

Return to [Global Industry
Committee](Global_Industry_Committee "wikilink") or [Global Committee
Pages](Global_Committee_Pages "wikilink").