## Roll Call

Global Industry Committee Call: April 29, 2011 at 18:00 UTC/GMT

Present:

  - Joe Bernik (Chair)
  - Sarah Baso (Secretary)
  - Rex Booth
  - Mauro Flores
  - Kate Hartmann
  - Lorna Alamri

Absent:

  - Georg Hess
  - Eoin Keary
  - Alexander Fry
  - Mateo Martinez
  - Colin Watson
  - David Campbell
  - Nishi Kumar

## Open GIC Action Items

### GIC Session at AppSec EU

  - How long should our session(s) be? 3 hours - with one for general
    GIC, one hour for NK's GIC outreach PPT, and one hour for RB's CISO
    survey?
  - RB - concerned that 3 hours is too long and too much time for
    attendees to be away from actual conference. Instead only 1 hour –
    10 min intro, 20 min on survey, 20 min on ppt, 10 min wrap
    up/general GIC comments.
  - SB will send out invites to attendees (selected by GIC from
    conference registration list) to attend the GIC session 2-3 weeks
    before the event. Although there will be targeted invites, will not
    be a closed-door session.
  - RB to follow up with EK (and include NK) regarding how our GIC
    session would best fit into the AppSec EU conference plan.
  - RB will provide the GIC prior to session about his CISO survey: what
    information is he trying to elicit, some of the initial drafts of
    the question, are there things OWASP/GIC is not asking that we
    should be, are there things we should be aware of that we are not.
  - LA suggested that for AppSec USA, GIC have their session or track on
    the day before the conference

### OWASP Awards

Board has asked each global committee to discuss, define their vetting
criteria and gather a list of 3 committee nomination that deserve an
OWASP award based on criteria you as the committee define -- to be given
out at AppSec USA in Sept.

  - RB – awards should to active appsec people outside of OWASP
  - JB - we need to better define criteria and what award is.
    Theoretically, could be someone that made an impact in the
    application security space. Ex: CISO of large bank or software
    development space.
  - MF– award to people adopting OWASP material (non-members but helping
    OWASP enter the corporate space). This is a way to draw people into
    the organization. Heavily leveraging OWASP in their current role.
  - JB – NK at Fidelity? MM at Tata Consulting adopting OWASP standards
    for development life cycle and trainings?
  - Action itme: Send an email out to the leaders/board for suggestion.
    Maybe different awards for different industry sectors.
  - MF– one of the criteria should be how public the company's use of
    the OWASP tools/standards is. More points if says so on website,
    etc.
  - JB to get feedback on possibilities at financial services conference

### Lucas Ferreira Letter to Brazilian Govt

Letter has been emailed to everyone for comment. No objections, only
positive feedback. Can GIC as a whole support this letter?

  - Email for a vote – if no contention go forward
  - MF– talked to Lucas about what kind of supporthe is looking for.
    Basically, Lucas is concerned about problem with OWASP support if
    letter sent to government.

### Committee Governance

  - Vote via email/doodle
  - Should not include rules on speaking on behalf of OWASP – this is
    for a larger organization document

### OWASP Points System

GIC needs to come up with industry-related points for the OWASP Point's
system - details and examples are on the project wiki page:
<https://www.owasp.org/index.php/OWASP_Points>

  - JB and RB not in agreement with system and will follow up with Mark
    Bristow individually regarding their concerns.

### Discussion re: what can GIC and OWASP offer as ROI to sponsors

  - Reduced rates at vendor areas at conference, reduced rate of
    conference attendance, printed versions of documentation put
    together
  - MF– OWASP community building a lot of stuff and this is free
    regardless of whether sponsor or not. However sponsors should
    realize this and chip in.
  - JB– companies are less likely to pay if no ROI, not necessarily
    altruistic-- more capitalistic (in private sector at least)
  - RB –we need business case for why a corporate sponsor… what other
    advantages, basis for other business. Maybe CISO survey will be an
    opportunity to model this.
  - LA– need to find out what would they find valuable. In her
    experience – licensing has been an issue. Non-vendors are interested
    but not necessarily traditional returns such as booths.
  - JB– we need an incentive model that works… controversial, but maybe
    we should put together a rating scale for appsec tools… for
    commercial products from an application security or browsers.
    Published rating system assess – with defined criteria. We are
    looking to better the market… empirical, objective analysis. Maybe a
    browser analysis.
  - Potential conflict with certification process.
  - MF – if you sponsor we can give you a presentation with a leader of
    x to speak with your people (video chat)
  - LA – build industry awareness… unknown tools… go out and inform
    companies.
  - Ask industry what tools they would find of value. Differentiation
    about what’s valuable from one vertical to another.
  - Post inquiry to leader's list?

## Next Meeting

Friday, 13 May 2011 at 18:00 UTC/GMT

  - \+1 877 534 8500 or International +1 513 534 8500
  - Passcode 410105 \#