## The presentation

![Kevin_Johnson.jpg](Kevin_Johnson.jpg "Kevin_Johnson.jpg")Injectable
exploits focus on the exploitation of major web flaws during penetration
tests. Two new tools will be released that expand the foothold
penetration testers can obtain through SQL injection and XSS flaws.
These tools provide greater insight into the network hosting the web
application and the networks in which the users are located. The first
tool Yokoso\! is an infrastructure fingerprinting system delivered via
XSS attack. The second tool, Laudanum is a collection of injectable
files that are prebuilt to perform various attacks within a network. The
final portion of the talk will cover SamuraiWTF. SamuraiWTF is a live CD
environment focused on web penetration tests. It was released during
DEFCON 16 and has had four new releases since that time. Both Yokoso\!
and Laudanum will be included on a new version of SamuraiWTF released at
DEFCON this year.

## The speakers

Kevin Johnson is a Senior Security Analyst with InGuardians. Kevin came
to security from a development and system administration background. He
has many years of experience performing security services for fortune
100 companies, and in his spare time contributes to a large number of
open source security projects. Kevin founded and leads the development
on B.A.S.E. (the Basic Analysis and Security Engine) project. The BASE
project is the most popular web interface for the Snort intrusion
detection system. Kevin is an instructor for SANS, teaching both the
Incident Handling and Hacker Techniques class and the Web Application
Penetration Testing and Ethical Hacking class, which he is the author.
He has presented to many organizations, including Infragard, ISACA,
ISSA, RSA and the University of Florida.

Justin Searle, a Senior Security Analyst with InGuardians, specializes
in penetration testing and security architecture. Previously, Justin
served as JetBlue Airway's IT Security Architect and has provided
top-tier support for the largest supercomputers in the world. Justin has
taught hacking techniques, forensics, networking, and intrusion
detection courses for multiple universities and corporations. Justin has
presented at top security conferences including DEFCON, ToorCon,
ShmooCon, and SANS. In his rapidly dwindling spare time, Justin co-leads
prominent open source projects including The Middler, Samarai Web
Testing Framework, and the social networking pentest tools: Yokoso\! and
Laudnum. He is actively working to finish the upcoming bestseller the
Seven Most Deadly Social Network Hacks, with Tom Eston of the Security
Justice Podcast, and Kevin Johnson of InGuardians. Justin has an MBA in
International Technology and is CISSP and SANS GIAC-certified in
incident handling and hacker techniques (GCIH) and intrusion analysis
(GCIA).

Frank DiMaggio is a manager of the Intel server team with a large
insurance company in the South East. He has been in a systems
administration role for over 18 years, working with small and medium
sized businesses in North Florida. His experience is with Microsoft,
Novell and Linux Operating Systems. In his spare time he contributes to
open source security projects such as BASE, SamuraiWTF and Yokoso\!

[Category:OWASP_AppSec_DC_09](Category:OWASP_AppSec_DC_09 "wikilink")
[Category:OWASP_Conference_Presentations](Category:OWASP_Conference_Presentations "wikilink")