[Vulnerabilities Table of Contents](ASDR_TOC_Vulnerabilities "wikilink")

## Description

Improperly scrubbing sensitive data from memory can compromise security.

Compiler optimization errors occur when:

  - Secret data is stored in memory.
  - The secret data is scrubbed from memory by overwriting its contents.
  - The source code is compiled using an optimizing compiler, which
    identifies and removes the function that overwrites the contents as
    a dead store because the memory is not used subsequently.

## Risk Factors

TBD

## Examples

### Example: "Dead store removal"

Memory overwriting code is removed by optimizing compiler, which causes
sensitive information left in the memory after its usage.

The following code reads a password from the user, uses the password to
connect to a back-end mainframe, and then attempts to scrub the password
from memory using memset().

```
     void GetData(char *MFAddr) {
     char pwd[64];
     if (GetPasswordFromUser(pwd, sizeof(pwd))) {
      if (ConnectToMainframe(MFAddr, pwd)) {
              // Interaction with mainframe
         }
       }
       memset(pwd, 0, sizeof(pwd));
    }
```

The code in the example will behave correctly if it is executed
verbatim, but if the code is compiled using an optimizing compiler, such
as Microsoft Visual C++Â® .NET or GCC 3.x, then the call to memset() will
be removed as a dead store because the buffer pwd is not used after its
value is overwritten \[1\]. Because the buffer pwd contains a sensitive
value, the application may be vulnerable to attack if the data is left
memory resident. If attackers are able to access the correct region of
memory, they may use the recovered password to gain control of the
system.

It is common practice to overwrite sensitive data manipulated in memory,
such as passwords or cryptographic keys, in order to prevent attackers
from learning system secrets. However, with the advent of optimizing
compilers, programs do not always behave as their source code alone
would suggest. In the example, the compiler interprets the call to
memset() as dead code because the memory being written to is not
subsequently used, despite the fact that there is clearly a security
motivation for the operation to occur. The problem here is that many
compilers, and in fact many programming languages, do not take this and
other security concerns into consideration in their efforts to improve
efficiency.

Attackers typically exploit this type of vulnerability by using a core
dump or runtime mechanism to access the memory used by a particular
application and recover the secret information. Once an attacker has
access to the secret information, it is relatively straightforward to
further exploit the system and possibly compromise other resources with
which the application interacts.

## Related [Attacks](Attacks "wikilink")

  - [Attack 1](Attack_1 "wikilink")
  - [Attack 2](Attack_2 "wikilink")

## Related [Vulnerabilities](Vulnerabilities "wikilink")

  - [Vulnerability 1](Vulnerability_1 "wikilink")
  - [Vulnerabiltiy 2](Vulnerabiltiy_2 "wikilink")

## Related [Controls](Controls "wikilink")

  - [Control 1](Control_1 "wikilink")
  - [Control 2](Control_2 "wikilink")

## Related [Technical Impacts](Technical_Impacts "wikilink")

  - [Technical Impact 1](Technical_Impact_1 "wikilink")
  - [Technical Impact 2](Technical_Impact_2 "wikilink")

## References

  - \[1\] M. Howard and D. LeBlanc. Writing Secure Code, Second Edition.
    Microsoft Press, 2003.

\[\[Category:FIXME|add links

In addition, one should classify vulnerability based on the following
subcategories:
Ex:\[\[Category:Error_Handling_Vulnerability|Category:Error Handling
Vulnerability\]\]

Availability Vulnerability

Authorization Vulnerability

Authentication Vulnerability

Concurrency Vulnerability

Configuration Vulnerability

Cryptographic Vulnerability

Encoding Vulnerability

Error Handling Vulnerability

Input Validation Vulnerability

Logging and Auditing Vulnerability

Session Management Vulnerability\]\]

__NOTOC__

[category:Compiler](category:Compiler "wikilink")

[Category:OWASP ASDR Project](Category:OWASP_ASDR_Project "wikilink")
[Category:Environmental
Vulnerability](Category:Environmental_Vulnerability "wikilink")
[Category:C/C++](Category:C/C++ "wikilink")
[Category:Implementation](Category:Implementation "wikilink")
[Category:Code Snippet](Category:Code_Snippet "wikilink")
[Category:Vulnerability](Category:Vulnerability "wikilink")