## The presentation

![Owasp_logo_normal.jpg](Owasp_logo_normal.jpg
"Owasp_logo_normal.jpg")Web application security scanners are a complex
class of tools that are a challenge to evaluate, and up until now no
formal evaluation criteria existed for these tools. The Web Application
Security Consortium's "Web Application Security Scanner Evaluation
Criteria (WASSEC)" project fills this gap by providing a set of detailed
evaluation criteria and a framework for conducting a formal scanner
evaluation. The goals of the WASSEC project are to 1) Provide scanner
users with the tools they need for conducting a detailed evaluation and
making an informed decision about which web application scanner(s) to
choose; 2) Provide scanner developers with a list of capabilities to
compare their tools against to help them create a roadmap of future
enhancements. This presentation will cover an overview of the WASSEC
project and show how to use the WASSEC documents to conduct a formal
scanner evaluation. Note: We won't be promoting or bashing any
particular web application scanner(s) during this presentation. The
WASSEC project is about giving users the tools they need to conduct a
solid evaluation and make their own informed decision on which
scanner(s) best meet their needs.

## The speaker

Brian Shura is the Director of Penetration Testing at AppSec Consulting
and is also the Project Leader for the Web Application Security
Consortium's "Web Application Security Scanner Evaluation Criteria"
project. He frequently conducts hands-on web application security
assessments, using a combination of manual and automated techniques, and
has created world-class security training for developers and QA
analysts. Prior to his role in application security, Brian spent five
years working as a developer on large Internet-facing websites.

[Category:OWASP_AppSec_DC_09](Category:OWASP_AppSec_DC_09 "wikilink")
[Category:OWASP_Conference_Presentations](Category:OWASP_Conference_Presentations "wikilink")