# Chapter Information

## Incoming Events

OWASP Iran Chapter Meeting (Public Meeting) 2018 - (Details will be
published soon)

# Membership

## Sponsorship/Membership

![Btn_donate_SM.gif](Btn_donate_SM.gif "Btn_donate_SM.gif") to this
chapter or become a local chapter supporter.

Or consider the value of [Individual, Corporate, or Academic Supporter
membership](Membership "wikilink"). Ready to become a member?
![Join_Now_BlueIcon.JPG](Join_Now_BlueIcon.JPG
"Join_Now_BlueIcon.JPG")

# Chapter News

## Sponsorship/Membership

After months of exhaustive work, a new membership approach is available
for Iranians. Check the membership tab.

## Chapter Meeting

The next chapter meeting would be in upcoming month. More information in
the mailing list and here alter.

# Active Projects

## OWASP Nettacker

**[OWASP Nettacker](https://www.owasp.org/index.php/OWASP_Nettacker)**
project is created to automate information gathering, vulnerability
scanning and eventually generating a report for networks, including
services, bugs, vulnerabilities, misconfigurations, and other
information. This software will utilize TCP SYN, ACK, ICMP and many
other protocols in order to detect and bypass Firewall/IDS/IPS devices.
By leveraging a unique method in OWASP Nettacker for discovering
protected services and devices such as SCADA. It would make a
competitive edge compared to other scanner making it one of the bests.

## OWASP JoomScan Project

**[OWASP JoomScan](https://github.com/rezasp/joomscan)** (short for
\[Joom\]la Vulnerability \[Scan\]ner) is an open source project,
developed with the aim of automating the task of vulnerability detection
and reliability assurance in Joomla CMS deployments. Implemented in
Perl, this tool enables seamless and effortless scanning of Joomla
installations, while leaving a minimal footprint with its lightweight
and modular architecture. It not only detects known offensive
vulnerabilities, but also is able to detect many misconfigurations and
admin-level shortcomings that can be exploited by adversaries to
compromise the system. Furthermore, OWASP JoomScan provides a
user-friendly interface and compiles the final reports in both text and
HTML formats for ease of use and minimization of reporting overheads.
OWASP JoomScan is included in Kali Linux distributions.

## OWASP VBScan Project

**[OWASP VBScan](https://www.owasp.org/index.php/OWASP_VBScan_Project)**
is an opensource project in Perl programming language to detect
VBulletin CMS vulnerabilities and analyses them.

## OWASP ZSC Project

**[OWASP ZSC](https://www.owasp.org/index.php/OWASP_ZSC_Tool_Project)**
is an open source software in python language which lets you generate
customized shellcodes and convert scripts to an obfuscated script.

# Past Events

### OWASP Iran Chapter Meeting July 2018

OWASP Nettacker, OWASP JoomScan, OWASP VBScan, OWASP ZSC, OWASP
Honeypot, OWASP PHP Security, OWASP WebgoatPHP, OWASP RBAC and etc
presented in the small meeting, and we decided to organize a public
meeting at the end of 2018.

### OWASP Nettacker ICS Section will be presented in KasperSky Industrial Cybersecurity

OWASP Nettacker ICS Section will be presented in KasperSky Industrial
Cybersecurity: Opportunities and challenges in Digital Transformation
2018 by Mohammad Reza Zamiri (
[1](https://github.com/zdresearch/OWASP-Nettacker/tree/master/lib/payload/scanner/ics_honeypot)
) ( [2](https://ics.kaspersky.com/conference/) )

### OWASP JoomScan at Blackhat Arsenal - USA 2018

OWASP JoomScan at OWASP Blackhat Arsenal - Las Vegas 2018. This project
will present on 8 August 10am to 11:20am by Mohammad Reza Espargham,
Babak Amin Azad, Vahid Behzadan. (
[1](https://www.blackhat.com/us-18/arsenal/schedule/index.html#owasp-joomscan-project-10824)
) (
[2](https://www.blackhat.com/us-18/arsenal.html#owasp-joomscan-project)
)

### OWASP Nettacker in OWASP Bay Area meetup 2018

OWASP Nettacker Tutorial by at OWASP Bay Area meetup. Thanks to Vahid
Behzadan for the presentation and OWASP Bay Area for hosting and
sponsoring us. ( [1](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4pu4hJMk6m8) )

### OWASP JoomScan at Blackhat Arsenal - Asia 2018

OWASP JoomScan at OWASP Blackhat Arsenal - Singapore 2018. Presented by
Mohammad Reza Espargham, Esmaeil Rahimian. and Blackhat for hosting. (
[Experiences and
Pictures](http://lists.owasp.org/pipermail/owasp-leaders/2018-March/019076.html)
) (
[1](https://www.blackhat.com/asia-18/arsenal.html#mohammad-reza-espargham)
) (
[1](https://www.blackhat.com/asia-18/arsenal/schedule/index.html#owasp-joomscan-project-9875)
)

### OWASP Nettacker Accepted for Google Summer of Code 2018

( [1](https://www.owasp.org/index.php/GSOC2018_Ideas) ) (
[2](https://summerofcode.withgoogle.com/organizations/6664778743808000/)
)
OWASP Nettacker Video Conference/Webinar for GSoC Team 1 May 2018 -
Vahid Behzadan - ML/AI in CyberSecurity (
[1](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7RQH8oECSyg) )

### OWASP Nettacker in OFFSECONF 2017

OWASP Nettacker was introduced in OFFSECONF 2017. ([Experiences and
Pictures](https://groups.google.com/forum/#!topic/owasp-nettacker/3gscDww2sf4))

### OWASP VBScan in OFFSECONF 2017

OWASP VBScan presented in OFFSECONF 2017. Click
[here](https://www.owasp.org/index.php/OWASP_VBScan_Project) for
additional information.

### OWASP ZSC in OFFSECONF 2016

OWASP ZSC project presented in OFFSECONF 2016 K. N. Toosi University of
Technology in Tehran ([Experiences and
Pictures](https://groups.google.com/forum/#!topic/owasp-zsc/t12M2fxn78k))

### the First National Web Application Security Conference

[WASC.ir](http://wasc.ir) April 2011, Shahid Beheshti University

### 4th Intl. Digital Media Fair

Tehran, Great Mosalla of Imam Khomeini, **October 7th-16th** Two
workshops by Abbas Naderi (aka) AbiusX :

  - Common Web Security for People (including Social Engineering issues)
  - Cryptography and Cryptanalysis

Both being held at October 9th

### 3rd Intl. Digital Media Fair

Tehran , Great Mosalla of Imam Khomeini, **October 01st-8th**

سومین نمایشگاه بین‌المللی رسانه‌های دیجیتال، ۸ الی ۱۵، مصلی امام خمینی

Two security related presentations by **Abbas Naderi (aka AbiusX)**:

  - OWASP Top Ten in Persian for common web developers (2 Oct, 19-21
    local time) ([download
    link](http://abiusx.com/archive/presentation/OWASP_Top_10_Farsi.pptx))
  - General Security and Privacy for the public (3 Oct, 19-21 local
    time) ([download
    link](http://abiusx.com/archive/presentation/security-privacy2.pptx))

`(Powerpoint and OpenOffice slides would be uploaded asap.)`

  - ۱۰ خطر اصلی در نرم افزارهای تحت وب - برای توسعه دهندگان وب
  - امنیت عمومی در وب، حفاظت از اطلاعات شخصی برای عموم مردم

Attendance is free of charge.

### Software security vulnerabilities and defense

`seminar presented in YAZD University by Hamid kashfi (26 June 2008). (`[`download``
 ``link`](http://strcpy.persiangig.com/Attacking_Software.ppt)` ) `

# Volunteer Events

از کسانی که دوست دارند داوطلبانه پروژه های این بنیاد را ارائه دارند دعوت
میشود، جهت هماهنگی به یکی از مدیران ایرانی پیغام دهند. متشکرم.

  - **[1](http://bostandoust.ir/wp-content/uploads/2018/07/0853.pdf)
    نشست امنیت نرم افزار های وب**

این نشست در دانشگاه فنی مهندسی شیراز با همکاری لاگ شیراز مورخ 4 تیر 97
تشکیل شد و آسیب پذیری های پی اچ پی توسط سعید بستان دوست ارائه گردیده.

# Resources

## OWASP Top 10 Persian

(24/09/2009) Persian translation of OWASP TOP 10 Project is published by
"Mitra Moosavi" and "Anahita Taheri". ([download
link](http://www.scribd.com/doc/20164417/OWASP-Top-10-2007-Persian))

لطفا پيشنهادات يا اصلاحات احتمالی را از طريق ايميل به تهيه کنندگان اين
سند ارسال نماييد

<headertabs></headertabs>` `

[Category:OWASP_Chapter](Category:OWASP_Chapter "wikilink")
[Category:Middle East](Category:Middle_East "wikilink")
[Category:Asia/Pacific/Middle
East](Category:Asia/Pacific/Middle_East "wikilink")