[Back to the Italian Chapter](http://www.owasp.org/index.php/Italy)

<center>

![Screen_Shot_2019-01-31_at_10.23.04_PM.png](Screen_Shot_2019-01-31_at_10.23.04_PM.png
"Screen_Shot_2019-01-31_at_10.23.04_PM.png")

</center>

Following on from the great successes of last years OWASP Italy day
conferences we are proud to announce that the 2019 OWASP Italy
conference will be held at the University of Udine on 27th September
2019.

The [Open Web Application Security Project](http://www.owasp.org), or
OWASP, is an international non-profit organization dedicated to web and
application security.

[The University of
Udine](http://www.esnnaseudine.it/?q=blog/universitaUdine) is ranked
eighth among Universities in Italy in terms of education quality and
research and it has just celebrated its 40th birthday last year.

OWASP Italy Day is a one-day conference focused on web application and
software security, application security testing tools and technologies
and cloud security. This year special topic of interest is the security
of emerging technologies such as blockchain and cryptocurrencies.

This conference provides a unique opportunity to learn about application
security topics and to network with application security
professionals/managers, software engineers, software quality
engineers/testers and computer science students.

The address of the conference is: [Università degli Studi di
Udine](http://www.uniud.it), Palazzo Antonini, Via Tarcisio Petracco, 8,
33100 Udine UD, Italy,
[map](https://www.google.com/maps/place/Università+degli+Studi+di+Udine,+Palazzo+Antonini-Cernazai/@46.0666611,13.2331162,15z/data=!4m5!3m4!1s0x0:0xbe8859d1092f1d40!8m2!3d46.0666611!4d13.2331162)

# Agenda

The Conference will be in ITALIAN language except for the keynote
speaker that will be in ENGLISH.

The conference will take place in one day on date of September 27th
2019.

The details of the conference agenda and selected speakers will be
announced after closing the (CFP) Call For Papers on August 15th.

Confirmed keynote speaker is the American computer scientist, author,
and researcher [Dr Gary
McGraw](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Gary_McGraw)

# Abstracts

The selected speakers talks and bios will be published not later than
August 15th 2019.

# Registration

The conference is FREE but registration is required in order to reserve
a seat at the conference.

Please use the following link to reserve your seat:
<https://www.eventbrite.com/e/italy-owasp-day-udine-2019-tickets-55879048739>

# Organization and goals

  - This conference will be organized by OWASP Italy with the logistical
    support of OWASP foundation. The conference hosts are [Prof Marino
    Miculan](https://www.researchgate.net/profile/Marino_Miculan)
    Department of Computer Sciences, University of Udine and OWASP Italy
    chair [Ing. Matteo
    Meucci](https://www.owasp.org/index.php/Matteo_Meucci).
  - The conference main goal is to stimulate interest in application and
    secure software engineering practices and learn about web
    application security, cloud security and security of emerging
    technologies.

# Sponsors

Conference, breakfast & coffee break, lunch, dinner and lanyard
sponsorships are available with details provided in the
[CFS](https://www.owasp.org/images/2/27/OWASP_Day_2019_CFS.pdf).
Sponsorship is the best opportunity to provide visibility to your
company’s brand to the attendees during and before the conference.
Conference sponsors company logos will also published on the conference
web pages the will be also announced through OWASP channels and social
media sites. Speakers of conference sponsors companies/organizations
will be given priority to present. If you are a company/vendor and wish
to sponsor the event, please contact [OWASP
Italy](https://www.owasp.org/index.php/Italy) or the conference
organizers.

# Call For Papers

The [CFP](https://www.owasp.org/images/d/da/OWASP_Day_2019_CFP.pdf) is
now open. The deadline for paper submission to the CFP is July 28th
2019. The top 5, 6 papers will be selected. For the format of the
presentations refer to the [OWASP presentation
guidelines](https://www.owasp.org/index.php/Category:OWASP_Presentations)
. The contents of the presentation must follow OWASP guidelines
regarding copyright and non-product bias presentation style.

__NOTOC__

[Category:Italy](Category:Italy "wikilink")