[Back to the Italian Chapter](http://www.owasp.org/index.php/Italy)

<center>

![<File:OWASPCagliari2018.JPG>](OWASPCagliari2018.JPG
"File:OWASPCagliari2018.JPG")
![<File:Ottobre-2018-Mese-Europeo-della-sicurezza-informatica.png>](Ottobre-2018-Mese-Europeo-della-sicurezza-informatica.png
"File:Ottobre-2018-Mese-Europeo-della-sicurezza-informatica.png")

</center>

#### WELCOME

**Introduction**

Welcome to the OWASP Italy Day 2018, Cagliari Edition Conference.
Following on from the great successes of last OWASP Days, the new
conference will take place next **19th October 2018 at the University of
Cagliari**. Address: Auditorium of the Faculty of Engineering and
Architecture, Piazza d'Armi, Cagliari.

# Agenda

The Conference will be in ITALIAN language.

The schedule will be as follow:

<font size="2pt">

<center>

<table width="80%">

<tr>

<td valign="top">

10:00h

</td>

<td bgcolor="#eeeeee">

<b>"Welcome and opening of the works"</b>
Prof. Giorgio Giacinto, Ing. Davide Ariu - Universit√† di Cagliari,
Matteo Meucci OWASP Italy
[Presentation](https://www.owasp.org/images/5/51/OWASPIt18.pdf)

</td>

</tr>

<tr>

<td valign="top">

10.15h

</td>

<td bgcolor="#b9c2dc">

<b>"Web Application & Cloud Services: What are the new threats? "</b>
David Calligaris, Director of Vulnerability Research & Security Testing
Automation Huawei Technologies GMBH
[Presentation](https://www.owasp.org/images/3/3d/DavidCalligaris-OWASPDay19-10-2018.pdf)

</td>

</tr>

<tr>

<td valign="top">

10:45h

</td>

<td bgcolor="#eeeeee">

<b>"API Security (or insecurity)"</b>
Marco Pacchiardo
[Presentation](https://)

</td>

</tr>

<tr>

<td valign="top">

11:15h

</td>

<td bgcolor="b9c2dc">

<b>"Let me introduce you the Owasp Mobile App Security Testing: How to
test your mobile applications against security vulnerabilities."</b>
Giuseppe Porcu, Minded Security
[Presentation](https://www.owasp.org/images/9/99/GiuseppePorcu-OWASPItalyDay19-10-2018.pdf)

</td>

</tr>

<tr>

<td valign="top">

11.45h

</td>

<td bgcolor="#eeeeee">

<b>Coffee Break</b>


</td>

</tr>

<tr>

<td valign="top">

12.10h

</td>

<td bgcolor="#b9c2dc">

<b>"Are you focusing on the root causes? A Unified Framework for Web
Security"</b>
Dr. Igino Corona,Computer Security Researcher, Co-Founder & Security CTO
at Pluribus One
[Presentation](https://www.owasp.org/images/d/dd/IginoCorona-OWASPItalyDay19-10-2018.pdf)

</td>

</tr>

<tr>

<td valign="top">

12:40h

</td>

<td bgcolor="#eeeeee">

<b>"How we turned spaghetti (code) into mHackeroni"</b>
Marco Festa, POLIMI

</td>

</tr>

<tr>

<td valign="top">

13:10h

</td>

<td bgcolor="#b9c2dc">

<b>Light lunch</b>

</td>

</tr>

</table>

</center>




# Abstracts

**David Calligaris, Director of Vulnerability Research & Security
Testing Automation Huawei Technologies GMBH**

Bio Old School Security Guy, playing with memory corruption bugs since
2000. Former CTO of Cyber Security Firm Emaze S.p.A. currently leads the
group for Vulnerability Research & Automation of Security Testing for
Huawei Europe.

Talk Abstract The introduction of cloud services has changed the way we
develop and deploy web applications, introducing new security issues. We
often talk about risks related to the cloud but many times these can be
traced back to old issues applied to a different context, but the cloud
also introduces new classes of problems: Open Bucket, Subdomain Takeover
are just some of the issues that are affecting the world of the
application security. In this talk, we will explore how to identify
these issues, what the real impacts are and what technologies are
available to prevent and mitigate them.

**Marco Pacchiardo**

Bio Marco (aka V3t3r4n) has 20 years of experience in international
security consulting and management, encompassing all areas of security.
He is author of two books on security, guides and several articles for
main italian Security IT magazines. He started his career in security
late in 1995, working firstly for local companies where he had the
opportunity to develop from scratch security functions and security
portfolios with great success. He invented brand new services for
security awareness, security compliance and risk management. Later he
moved to international security consulting companies as Principal
Security Consultant where he was asked to support customers in almost
all continents. In this role he worked with enterprises and foreign
governments to increase their security posture in the areas of
compliance, risk management and technical countermeasures. More recently
Marco took over the responsibility of the Italian security consulting
function of a telco company as Head of Security Italy, where he managed
to push and optimize the security proposition. He worked as Senior
Enterprise Security Architect for a well known international company for
which he was responsible for South Europe and Middle East.

Abstract How API work, how they can be attacked and how to protect API.
You will learn the API framework of working, the vulnerabilities and
threats and examples on how to exploit them.

**Giuseppe Porcu, Minded Security**

Bio: Giuseppe Porcu is a Security Consultant at Minded Security. He
holds a Bachelor degree in Computer Science from the University of
Cagliari, where he performed a Network Penetration Test for his thesis,
then he moved to University of Verona to continue his studies in
Software Engineering and Cyber Security. Before working at Minded
Security he was an IT Consultant and Full Stack Developer, now he
performs Web Application and Network Penetration Tests and other
activities focused on Cyber Security. He is also interested in new
technologies and Digital Forensics.

Abstract: This era has seen an increase in attacks to devices that we
always carry with us and that we use for different activities, from
playing videogame and watching videos to reading confidential messages
and transferring funds from our bank account: our smartphones. The
applications installed on our device, like websites and standalone
applications, could be subject to vulnerabilities often left
unconsciously by developers. The vision of this project is to define the
industry standard for mobile application security and in this
presentation we will introduce the Mobile Security Testing Guide, a
comprehensive manual for mobile app security testing. This manual could
be a very useful resource for developers and testers in order to do
build and mantain secure mobile applications. We will see the testing
techniques for the key areas in mobile application security like local
data storage, secure communication, anti-tampering and anti-reversing
etc.. We will see also some real vulnerabilities we found during our
tests in order to analyze some specific related mobile security
problems.

'''Igino Corona, Computer Security Researcher, Co-Founder & Security CTO
at Pluribus One ''' Bio: Igino Corona received the M.Sc. Degree in
Electronic Engineering from the University of Cagliari, in 2006. In his
MSc thesis (in Italian), he discussed the design and the implementation
(in Python and C++ programming languages) of an anomaly-based,
unsupervised Intrusion Detection System for the analysis of the HTTP
traffic. The Clusit Association awarded this work as one of the best
Italian research thesis on computer system security.
Abstract: Modern web services rely on complex, distributed
architectures, characterized by a myriad of inter-dependent interpreters
running at both client- and server-side. This makes web security an
impressively hard task. However, in this presentation we will see that
many vulnerabilities, including those in the TOP 10 OWASP, although
apparently unrelated to each other, actually share the same root cause.
Identifying and focusing on the root cause of vulnerabilities allows one
to prefigure general and well-suited prevention and protection measures,
capable to address both known and new security issues. Throughout the
discussion, we will make concrete application examples according to our
framework.

Learning objectives Many vulnerabilities, including those in the TOP 10
OWASP, although apparently unrelated to each other, actually share the
same root cause. Focusing on the root cause of vulnerabilities allows
one to foresee new security problems. Focusing on the root cause of
vulnerabilities allows one to prefigure general and well-suited
prevention and protection measures against web attacks.Concrete
application of the framework to address known attacks and foresee new
attacks

**Marco Festa, Politecnico di Milano**

Bio: "Marco Festa is a student finishing his Master Degree in Computer
Science and Engineering at Politecnico di Milano. For the past 2 years
he has been working for Cefriel as a Cyber Security Engineer performing
(mostly but not only) penetration testing and vulnerability assessment
activities. Focused on reverse engineering and binary exploitation he's
also an hard-core CTF player with Polimi's official team "Tower Of
Hanoi". He actively participated in the creation of the Italian super
team mHACKeroni (DEFCON CTF Finalist in 2018)"

Abstract: "In this talk, we present our story on how we ended up playing
DEF CON CTF Finals in Las Vegas. mHackeroni is born in April 2018 from 5
different Italian CTF teams who decided to merge their diversified
skills and join the ultimate flag capturing machine. In May 2018 we
played the DEF CON Qualifier event achieving an unexpected 2nd place\!
What now ? How do we survive Vegas Finals? Be prepared, develop tools,
have a strategy, network infrastructure ...and then... change everything
during the competition: new strategies, some tools don't work, keep
hacking, sync each other, no sleep, NO INTERNET ?\!?\! At the end of the
talk we'll try to write a "0day" exploit for a legacy browser to solve
one of the qualifiers challenges. The service will be opened to the
audience as well, who gets the flag first wins..."

# Registration



The Conference is entrance free but you need to register to participate.

Please use the following link to researve your seat\!

<https://www.eventbrite.it/e/biglietti-owasp-italy-day-2018-cagliari-50038283854>

# Organization and goals

  - The event will show several points of discussion: we will present
    the state of the art of the Secure Software Initiatives and
    technical speeches about the new researches in Application Security.
  - Conference goal is creating a debate on which will be the evolution
    of the research for the Web Application Security, and how to start a
    secure software initiative.

# Sponsors

Thank you to our sponsors:

<center>



|                                                          |  |                                                                                          |  |                                                        |
| -------------------------------------------------------- |  | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |  | ------------------------------------------------------ |
| ![LogoInnovery.png](LogoInnovery.png "LogoInnovery.png") |  | ![Logo-minded-highres(1).png](Logo-minded-highres\(1\).png "Logo-minded-highres(1).png") |  | ![LOGO_NUMERA.png](LOGO_NUMERA.png "LOGO_NUMERA.png") |

</center>



# Call For Papers

The [CFP](https://www.owasp.org/images/5/57/OWASPDay2018_Cfp_02.pdf) is
now closed

<center>



</center>

__NOTOC__ <headertabs />

[Category:Italy](Category:Italy "wikilink")