[Back to the Italian Chapter](http://www.owasp.org/index.php/Italy)

<center>

![<File:OWASPDayIV.png>](OWASPDayIV.png "File:OWASPDayIV.png")

</center>

#### WELCOME

**Introduction**

Welcome to the OWASP Day IV Italy Conference for 2009. Following on from
the great success of last OWASP Days, the new conference has taken place
in November 2009 in Milan.

**Organization and goals:**

  - The event showed several points of discussion: we presented the
    state of the art of the Secure Software Initiatives and technical
    speeches about the new researches in Application Security.
  - As conclusion of the day, we organized a round table discussing the
    most interesting subjects came out during the event.
  - Conference goal is creating a debate on which will be the evolution
    of the research for the Web Application Security, and how to start a
    secure software initiative.

**References:**

-----

"Avete finito di imbottire le vostre reti di firewall e altre diavolerie
simili? Allora è tempo di cambiare prospettiva e rendersi conto che
oggi, dopo aver messo in sicurezza il perimetro dei nostri sistemi
informativi, le minacce più serie provengono dalle nostre stesse
applicazioni che, a volte, non sono progettate ed implementate, tenendo
conto delle migliori pratiche di sviluppo di software sicuro. In questo
campo l’OWASP rappresenta un punto di riferimento costante ed una
miniera di informazioni e strumenti, ed al Ministero dell’Istruzione,
Università e Ricerca abbiamo imparato ad apprezzarne i materiali e le
informazioni disponibili sul suo sito web, nell’ambito del nostro gruppo
che si occupa di sicurezza del sistema informativo. Per conoscere le
iniziative dell’OWASP, avere un’anteprima delle principali novità in
tema di sicurezza del software, incontrare i maggiori esperti in questo
settore, partecipate all’OWASP DAY – ITALY IV il 6 novembre prossimo a
Milano, sarà un’occasione utilissima di approfondimento."
**Paolo De Santis – Dirigente della Direzione Generale per gli Studi, la
Statistica ed i Sistemi Informativi del MIUR**

“L’OWASP Day è il luogo e il momento per incontrare altri professionisti
e appassionati del settore. E’ un’opportunità per conoscere direttamente
dai protagonisti le metodologie, le tecniche e gli ambiti di ricerca nel
mondo della sicurezza applicativa divenuto ormai il fattore principale,
insieme a quello umano, nel campo dell’Information Security. “
**Massimo Trevisani—CSO IWBank**

"Le conferenze OWASP in Italia rappresentano un momento importante di
awareness sulla sicurezza applicativa. L'evento rappresenta un punto di
riferimento in cui i professionisti dell'IT possono valutare nuovi
approcci allo sviluppo sicuro del software e alla difesa delle proprie
applicazioni on-line"
**Marco Bavazzano—CISO Telecom Italia**

**Key Speakers:**

-----

**Marco Morana — CISO Citigroup**
Marco Morana serves the OWASP organization by leading the USA Cincinnati
chapter  and he is a key contributor of many OWASP projects. Marco works
as Technology Information Security Officer for a large financial
organization in North America with responsibilities in the definition of
the software security coding standards, management of security
assessments during the SDLC related to application security. The aim of
this presentation is help application security practitioners such as
project managers and information security officers to make business
cases for software security initiatives. The presentation will first
introduce the need to position the organization’s Software Security
Initiatives with respect to software security models such as BSIMM and
SAMM. In order to create the business case for software security it is
essential to make the case for business (e.g. costs) as well as security
(e.g. engineering, vulnerability management).

**Tobias Christen — CTO, DSwiss Ltd**
Tobias began his career  in a research team of a swiss bank specializing
in new internet technologies. He then went on to join a leading
international security-software company - Stonesoft - where he served as
Head of R\&D, Head of Product Management, and CTO of the company. For
several years Tobias was working at Zurich Financial Services where he
built up a new security architecture, and developing their IT risk
strategy. In early 2008 Tobias joined DSwiss as CTO.   In this
presentation we look at some typical usability versus security mistakes.
We see examples where lack of usability in security controls resulted in
work arounds from users, and we also see typical examples where lack of
security is blindly accepted. We discuss what is considered "acceptable"
security by the general audience and discuss technologies that have a
better usability versus security tradeoff.
[Official
invitation](http://www.owasp.org/images/a/ab/InvitoOWASPDay4.pdf)

#### Sponsors

If you want to become a Sponsor of the Initiative, please drop an email
to: [Matteo Meucci](mailto:matteo.meucci@owasp.org)

**Gold Sponsors:**

<center>

[<http://www.owasp.org/images/b/b2/FortifyNew.JPG>](http://www.fortifysoftware.com)
[<http://www.owasp.org/images/8/84/IBM.png>](http://www-306.ibm.com/software/awdtools/appscan/standard/)[<http://www.owasp.org/images/8/8e/Rational.gif>](http://www-306.ibm.com/software/awdtools/appscan/standard/)
[<http://www.owasp.org/images/c/cb/Vasco.jpg>](http://www.vasco.com)

</center>

**Silver Sponsors:**

#### Agenda & Presentations

<center>

<table width="80%">

<tr>

<td width=4%>

9:00h

</td>

<td bgcolor="#BCA57A" width=*>

<b>Registration</b>

</td>

</tr>

<tr>

<td valign=top>

9.30h

</td>

<td bgcolor="#eeeeee">

[**Introduction to the
OWASP-Day**](http://www.owasp.org/images/7/7b/OWASP-Italy_Day_IV_Meucci.pdf)
Matteo Meucci - OWASP-Italy Chair, CEO Minded Security

</td>

</tr>

<tr>

<td valign=top>

9.50h

</td>

<td bgcolor="#b9c2dc">

[**How to Create Business cases for Your Software Security
Initiative**](http://www.owasp.org/images/7/7b/OWASP-Italy_Day_IV_Morana.pdf)
Marco Morana — CISO, Citigroup

</td>

</tr>

<tr>

<td valign=top>

10.30

</td>

<td bgcolor="#eeeeee">

[**OWASP SAMM / Open Software Assurance Maturity
Model**](http://www.owasp.org/images/f/fd/OpenSAMM-1.0_Merloni.pdf)
Claudio Merloni — Software Security Consultant, Fortify Software

</td>

</tr>

<tr>

<td valign=top>

11.10h

</td>

<td bgcolor="#BCA57A">

<b>Coffee break</b>

</td>

</tr>

<tr>

<td valign=top>

11.40h

</td>

<td bgcolor="#b9c2dc">

[**From Web Attacks to Malware. Can Secure Software Development Help
Internet Banking
Security?**](http://www.owasp.org/images/9/9a/Owasp_Day_IV_Fedon.pdf)
Giorgio Fedon — COO, Minded Security

</td>

</tr>

<tr>

<td valign=top>

12.20h

</td>

<td bgcolor="#eeeeee">

[**Usability versus security: securing Internet facing applications
while keeping them highly attractive for everybody
(ENG)**](http://www.owasp.org/images/e/e0/UsableSecurity.pdf)
Tobias Christen — CTO, DSwiss Ltd

</td>

</tr>

<tr>

<td valign=top>

13.00h

</td>

<td bgcolor="#BCA57A">

<b>Business Lunch</b>

</td>

</tr>

<tr>

<td valign=top>

14.00h

</td>

<td bgcolor="#b9c2dc">

[**NoScript, CSP and ABE: When the Browser Is Not Your
Enemy**](http://www.owasp.org/images/5/50/OWASP-Italy_Day_IV_Maone.pdf)
Giorgio Maone — CTO, InformAction

</td>

</tr>

<tr>

<td valign=top>

14.40h

</td>

<td bgcolor="#eeeeee">

[**Building Security In Maturity Model: A Review of Successful Software
Security Programs
(ENG)**](http://www.owasp.org/images/1/12/OWASP-Italy_Day_IV_Giuseppini.pdf)
Gabriele Giuseppini — Technical Manager, Cigital

</td>

</tr>

<tr>

<td valign=top>

15.20h

</td>

<td bgcolor="#b9c2dc">

[**The art of code
reviewing**](http://www.owasp.org/images/d/da/Perego_code_reviewing.pdf)
Paolo Perego — Senior Consultant, Spike Reply

</td>

</tr>

<tr>

<td valign=top>

16.00h

</td>

<td bgcolor="#eeeeee">

**Round Table: Why Software Security is not a priority in our digital
world?**
Marco Morana, Citigroup - Carlo Merloni, Fortify - Gabriele Giuseppini,
Cigital, Mauro Bregolin, Kima Projects & Services - Stefano Di Paola,
Minded Security
Chairman Raoul Chiesa, MediaService

</td>

</tr>

</table>

</center>

#### Photos & Videos

All the photos of the Conference are available
[here](http://www.owaspitaly.org/Owasp_Day_IV/Photos/index.html)

You can see all the videos of the conferences at the following URLs:
1 - Matteo Meucci
<http://www.owaspitaly.org/Owasp_Day_IV/Video_Hires/1%20-%20Meucci/1%20-%20Meucci.html>
2 - Marco Morana
<http://www.owaspitaly.org/Owasp_Day_IV/Video_Hires/2%20-%20Morana/2%20-%20Morana.html>
<http://www.owaspitaly.org/Owasp_Day_IV/Video_Hires/2%20-%20Morana/Owasp-Day%20PA/OWASP_Day_4_Italy_11_6_0_reduced.mp4>
<http://www.owaspitaly.org/Owasp_Day_IV/Video_Hires/2%20-%20Morana/Owasp-Day%20PA/OWASP_Day_E_Gov_Italy_11_5_09_reduced.mp4>
3 - Claudio Merloni
<http://www.owaspitaly.org/Owasp_Day_IV/Video_Hires/3%20-%20Merloni/3%20-%20Merloni.html>
4 - Giorgio Fedon
<http://www.owaspitaly.org/Owasp_Day_IV/Video_Hires/4%20-%20Fedon/4%20-%20Fedon.html>
5 - Tobias Christen
<http://www.owaspitaly.org/Owasp_Day_IV/Videos/5%20-%20Christen/5%20-%20Christen.html>
6 - Giorgio Maone
<http://www.owaspitaly.org/Owasp_Day_IV/Video_Hires/6%20-%20Maone/6%20-%20Maone.html>
7 - Gabriele Giuseppini
<http://www.owaspitaly.org/Owasp_Day_IV/Video_Hires/7%20-%20Giuseppini/7%20-%20Giuseppini.html>
8 - Paolo Perego
<http://www.owaspitaly.org/Owasp_Day_IV/Video_Hires/8%20-%20Perego/8%20-%20Perego.html>
9 - Round Table
<http://www.owaspitaly.org/Owasp_Day_IV/Video_Hires/9%20-%20Tavola%20Rotonda/9%20-%20Tavola%20Rotonda.html>

__NOTOC__ <headertabs/>

[Category:Italy](Category:Italy "wikilink")