**<u>Upcoming Meetings</u>**

Monthly OWASP Jax meetings will be held on the second Monday of the
month, unless otherwise stated. The meeting location will be held in the
Secure Ideas Headquarters training room at 3412 Kori Rd, Jacksonville,
Fl 32257. The start time is 6:30 with a short introduction and
presentations beginning at 7:00 until NLT 8:30pm. All are welcome to
attend by registering at the following link;
<https://www.eventbrite.com/e/owasp-jax-monthly-meeting-tickets-44450499641>.
Please register by the Friday prior to the meeting.

June 11, 2018 - Guest speaker will be Oleg Laskin. Oleg, will be
presenting on the tools used during the testing of web applications,
with an intro to applications like ZAP and Burp Suite.

July 9, 2018 - \*\*Cancelled\*\*

August 06, 2018 - Keith Perry.

September 10, 2018 - Guest speakers Nathan Sweeney and Mic
Whitehorn-Gillam, topic will be a discussion about testing an
Application vs API Video link:
<https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=pyQDO6S9vQ4>

October 8, 2018 - Brandi Kiehl Topic: WordClouds

November 12, 2018 - Dr Johannes Ullrich Topic: Nation State Level
Honeypotting: Emulating Vulnerable Web Applications at Scale Video link:
<https://youtu.be/2anqrtfJ1nA>

December 10 - OWASP Jax social \*\* Cancelled \*\*

January 14, 2019 - Guest Speaker Oleg Laskin , Password Cracking
<https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Sz2IayEfuBg&t=741s>

February 11, 2019 - Guest Speaker Michael Marbut, Everything you want to
know about passwords but we're too afraid to ask: a beginners guide to
password hashing Video linkÂ : <https://youtu.be/prhE150EiI4>

March 11, 2019 - Guest Speaker David Fekke, this presentation will cover
the BlackBerry Dynamics framework, what it can provide for mobile and
enterprise security. This presentation will include a demo of a iOS
application built with BlackBerry Dynamics.
<https://www.eventbrite.com/e/owaspjax-monthly-meeting-tickets-55975263520>

April 8, 2019 - Guest speaker needed

May 13, 2019 - Guest speaker needed

June 10, 2019 - Guest speaker neeed

Be sure to sign up on
<https://www.eventbrite.com/e/owaspjax-monthly-meeting-tickets-55975263520>

**<u>Sponsors</u>**

Secure Ideas

Robert Half Technology Jacksonville

[Category:OWASP Chapter](Category:OWASP_Chapter "wikilink")