• Sarah B., Lorna, Kate dialed in for call.

• Kate asked for thoughts on registering for working sessions via
RegOnline and whether we should have all previous registrants go through
the RegOnline system to find out which WS they want to attend (which can
be used to print out a personalized schedule later) and to have them see
the shirts we have available to purchase. It was decided that we would
leave things as is for now. If we want to collect this information from
attendees, we will either need to route them through regonline or
someone else (Paulo or Sandra?) could handle it.

• Sarah provided an update on the reporter from Hacker Network News.
Kuai Hinojosa arranged a reporter from Hacker Network News (Stefan
Wuensch) who will be coming to help out with video taping as well as
editing and posting of videos/interviews. Stefan's travel expenses will
be coming out of the Summit Operational budget (currently $2k allocated
for this). Sarah spoke with Stefan last night and is in the process of
booking his flight and accommodations.

• We have 2 sponsored attendees right now that need assistance in
getting their visa. Zaki Akmad from Indonesia and Talal Al-Basha from
Saudi Arabia. We have already provided a letter of invitation for Zaki,
but he needs a local contact - so we will be routing him through Maria
at Diplomata to handle this. Sarah will also be asking Maria at
Diplomata to handle travel and visa arrangements for Talal.

• Sarah asked for assistance in putting together a checklist of
items/questions to send out to confirmed attendees next week (01 Feb -
Tuesday). Lorna will assist with this.

• Lorna spoke with Tom Brennan about the status of any sponsorships that
have come in for the Summit. We haven't received any and Tom suggested
we email attendees providing an incentive ($500) for any of them that
can secure a corporate sponsor for the Summit. We discussed if this
"bounty" was appropriate. Email will not be sent.

• Sarah gave a status update on the Budget - $11k in unallocated funds
from the Operational Budget, and $10k from the Travel budget, although
much of this travel budget will be used once individuals whom we have
agreed to sponsor have booked their trip.

  - Tomas has arranged for the Summit team to secure a laser printer for
    use during the summit. Cost is 100 EU/day.

<!-- end list -->

  - As per email, dinner and drinks will be delivered to villas nightly.
    Details on location will be sorted out by on site team.

<!-- end list -->

  - Need update on remote broadcasting

<!-- end list -->

  - Need update on Brazilian Delegation expenses

<!-- end list -->

  - Need update on PR Company releases and follow up