### Time

  - Date/Time: July 1, 2016/6pm-9pm CEST
  - [TimeZone
    Converter](http://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/meetingdetails.html?year=2016&month=05&day=18&hour=14&min=0&sec=0&p1=224&p2=24&p3=263&p4=78&p5=37&p6=102&p7=152)

### Location

[Rome Marriott-Park
Hotel](http://www.marriott.com/hotels/travel/romau-rome-marriott-park-hotel/)

**Teleconference Information:**

<https://www3.gotomeeting.com/join/861328838>

[International Toll Free Calling
Information](International_Toll_Free_Calling_Information "wikilink")

### Attendance Tracker

**[Board Meeting Attendance
Tracker](https://docs.google.com/a/owasp.org/spreadsheet/ccc?key=0ApZ9zE0hx0LNdG5uRzNYZE8ycDFabnBWNkU4SFpwREE)**

### Notice of Recording

  - Notice to all attendees - board meetings are recorded and publicly
    available as of March, 2013
  - Joining the call acknowledges your awareness of recording and
    consent to be recorded and public dissemination of the recording.

[Meeting
Recording](https://www.dropbox.com/s/aktrggvosatxc0s/OWASP%20Board%20Meeting%20July%201.mp4?dl=0)

### Meeting Minutes

July 1, 2016 Meeting Minutes

  -

      -
        \-
        <https://docs.google.com/a/owasp.org/document/d/1hglA-43SJbZP4iHftoP6L11SZXiQkxmikjwi-5czc78/edit?usp=sharing>

May 18, 2016 Meeting Minutes:

  -

      -
        \-
        <https://docs.google.com/document/d/14uLi51kUGcmqIfjZJ0WEe2WZO4_-lUabdPBS4XSz7V0/edit?usp=sharing>

# Reading Material

***It is a requirement as a board member to fully read all material
prior to the start of the meeting***

  - OWASP Website Project draft report - post comments on the draft

<https://docs.google.com/document/d/1OWo4Er61iK2ySwoJsuCHw9ManGHjiMURuRiQUmMVSuY/edit?usp=sharing>

# Meeting Agenda

## Call to Order /OWASP Mission

  - Administrative: List of attendees and Agenda bashing (only if
    last-minute changes to the agenda are needed) (5 min)

## Reports

### Chair's Report - Matt Konda

  - Developer Initiatives: Chicago Coder Conference, Goto; Chicago,
    TechNexus Panel on Security, Chicago FTW Start with Security Panel
  - Organizational
      - Staff meetings
      - Hiring follow through for STC
  - Minimal Bill payments
  - 1:1 with staff at AppSecEU

### Vice Chair's Report - Josh Sokol

  - I've got nothing major to report here so let's save the time for
    some of the bigger discussions that we need to have.

### Treasurer Report - Andrew van der Stock

From January to around at least April, OWASP had operational reserves
far less than the target operational reserve target of six months. This
is due to a lack of revenue, unbudgeted expenses, and a split model that
favors one strategic goal over all others. Luckily, the success of
AppSec EU has made a recovery possible, and provides breathing room
until this is resolved.

Unfortunately, the 2016 draft budget was never finished, and it was not
approved. We need to approve a revised 2016 budget. There will be a
budget working party held in Rome to get through this out of cycle
budgeting process that will hopefully put in a reasonable budget for the
rest of the year until planning can start again at the October face to
face board meeting.

I have created a set of financial motions that address revenue, such as
a membership fee increase, additional membership classes, a training
program, and to invest $250k of our unused earmarked funds in a
structured investment program. These measures will collectively increase
our membership, particularly in the developing economies, and improve
our bottom line by over $100k per year, with an additional $60-75k over
five years from investing the earmarked funds.

We will need to work together on structural reform that addresses the
profit splitting more equitably so that future operational reserves do
not go below six months, and so we can invest in all of our strategic
goals, and not just one. This is not optional, because there is a risk
that a future AppSec conference does not do well, as happened in 2012,
this could bring OWASP down. We need to address this structural reform
so that we can grow to a $5m per year organisation, which has far
different issues than we do today.

  - Josh Comment: AppSecUSA 2012 was the highest grossing AppSec
    conference ever held at the time. Not sure where this comment comes
    from, but it is wrong.
  - Josh Comment:
    <https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1GhYNDmDmkxr1xo18e9o6rj9YEILOEJl9KjDBTU-wQ1o/edit?usp=sharing>

### Chapters - Michael Coates

  - Working with Tiffany regarding concerns over a specific chapter
    election
  - Waiting on Sooryen information before further chapter outreach

## Financial information

  - June financial package

<!-- end list -->

  -

      -
        \- TBA

<!-- end list -->

  - 2016 Draft Budget

<!-- end list -->

  -

      -
        \-
        <https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1tCD2IDtDneI0ZzDeSBehXpaSzTantftUrp_b5YUWsVE/edit#gid=616181681>

### Secretary Report - \#\#\#\#\#\#\#\#\#\#

  - Need to assign this role to a current board member to fill vacancy -
    [why](http://www.nonprofitlawblog.com/duties-of-the-secretary-of-a-nonprofit-corporation/)

### Governance report

open issues

  - replacement of resigned board member Jim. Motion appoint next on
    voted list from last year for the remainder of the term (until
    Dec-31, 2016).
  - brand management
  - copyright statement recommendations
  - complaints (several complaints open with compliance team, Matt had
    as chairman communication with some parties).

(all these topics are important, but not as urgent as getting our
expenses in order and deciding on progressing for the ED role, etc.
Therefore, I propose to table them until our next board meeting in 3
weeks time, end of July)

### Updated from Members at Large - Tom Brennan, Michael Coates, and Tobias Gondrom

  - Coates - Chapters

<!-- end list -->

  - Gondrom - Governance

<!-- end list -->

  - Brennan - Projects

## Reports

  - Executive Director/Operations Update - [Rollup
    Report](https://docs.google.com/a/owasp.org/document/d/1gMcPLK_zC_HJJKmqd72bOP66W0XzvAGjMzRabGW6N7M/edit?usp=sharing)
      - Financial Update - \[Link| Board Summary Combined\] \[Link|
        Combined Balance Sheet\]
      - Director Update - Kate Hartmann - see rollup report above
      - Project Coordinator Update
        -DRAFT\[<https://docs.google.com/a/owasp.org/presentation/d/1jeTYCaTRw-lqJV0q3OpYiTZCrAwf4T9fKiMjqHccm44/edit?usp=sharing>|
        Claudia Aviles Casanovas Update\]
      - Membership Update - [Membership
        Report](https://www.owasp.org/index.php/May_2016_Membership_Report)
        Kelly Santalucia Update\]
      - \[Link| Conference Manager Report\] - Laura Grau
      - IT Update - \[Link| IT Status Report as of 2016-05-17\] - Matt
        Tesauro

### Community Initiative Reports

## Old Business

All active board proposals are listed
[here](https://drive.google.com/folderview?id=0BxSfMVkfLvslVXdvUFV3NkxucWc&usp=sharing)

  - Motion to create Regional Advisory Councils - Please read final
    draft. Vote held over from January 2016

<!-- end list -->

  -

      -
        \-
        <https://docs.google.com/document/d/16y0acWfeZ_skcO27D-conivvlbSqPbAC1xTY5UfJi_4/edit>

## New Business

  - Status of filed Trademarks with the USPO and discussion about brand
    usage and resources

<!-- end list -->

  -

      -
        \- <https://www.owasp.org/index.php/Marketing/Resources>

<!-- end list -->

  - Co-Marketing Agreements with other conferences

<!-- end list -->

  -

      -
        \-
        <https://www.owasp.org/index.php/Owasp_Conference_Management_System>
        \-
        <https://www.owasp.org/index.php/Category:OWASP_AppSec_Conference>

Mailing LIsts @ OWASP - Results of Leader meeting at AppSecEU
OWASP-Leaders List = Announcement Only List (Policy, Procedures,
Updates) \* All Members Only (Projects Leaders, Chapter Leaders etc..
are MEMBERS) OWASP-AppSec List = Discussion List (Place for discussion
about any AppSec Topic (moderated for appsec questions and discussion no
UCE or general spam)

Motion to pay out on global appsec events by the profit from each event
%. Simplify it to avoid "low balling" the projections.

  -

      -
        \-
        <https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1GhYNDmDmkxr1xo18e9o6rj9YEILOEJl9KjDBTU-wQ1o/edit#gid=0>

Secretary Assignment / Related, update votes what was not done since
Feb., <https://www.owasp.org/index.php/OWASP_Board_Votes>

## Action Items

  - Approve a 2016 Budget

<!-- end list -->

  -

      -
        \-
        <https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1tCD2IDtDneI0ZzDeSBehXpaSzTantftUrp_b5YUWsVE/edit#gid=616181681>

<!-- end list -->

  - Motion to appoint a replacement secretary for the remainder of 2016

<!-- end list -->

  -

      -
        \-
        <https://docs.google.com/a/owasp.org/document/d/1ir9P0kz7HQuJqOEpgL4r2yKwLQCR47gLswvliaqzyak/edit?usp=sharing>

<!-- end list -->

  - Motion to appoint a casual vacancy on the OWASP Global Board for the
    remainder of 2016

<!-- end list -->

  -

      -
        \-
        <https://docs.google.com/a/owasp.org/document/d/1ukMZJ9MdCITjT1t_IWC4pxKZKcqATOu-yFpZ1ruddrc/edit?usp=sharing>

<!-- end list -->

  - Motion to invest a portion of unused funds in a ladder CD
    arrangement

<!-- end list -->

  -

      -
        \-
        <https://docs.google.com/document/d/1cZOMYzaRnWW_oQd4ON7kBNQcmlx3V4u33Szm8jH2cgU/edit#>

<!-- end list -->

  - Motion to approve changes to FY17 membership rates

<!-- end list -->

  -

      -
        \-
        <https://docs.google.com/a/owasp.org/document/d/1RBy7yRl-qVo49lDL1JeKmhwLElcazrJ7tY4OO5Wwb6U/edit?usp=sharing>

<!-- end list -->

  - Motion to establish a pay anything membership class, eliminate
    honorary membership and establish an annual Paul Ritchie Memorial
    Award

<!-- end list -->

  -

      -
        \-
        <https://docs.google.com/a/owasp.org/document/d/1GTcff47NFDgFCnnFTvaEehdecc-TU2PWjAqc9x470Vw/edit?usp=sharing>

<!-- end list -->

  - Motion to create an OWASP open training platform

<!-- end list -->

  -

      -
        \-
        <https://docs.google.com/document/d/1dZ-6eJyNj5iiTTo9AS5NC77PYwOF0D9aTHz8dmcJGJ0/edit#>

## Announcements

## Adjournment

  - Next meeting date/time:
    [July 27th](https://www.owasp.org/index.php?title=July_27,_2016)

## Motion to close meeting