**June Meeting - 6/29 @ 7PM**

Atlanta OWASP June Meeting

Advanced SQL Injection Exploiting SQL injection on MySQL, generic UNION
exploit and using SQL Injection to gain complete access to a server.

Wednesday June 29th 7:00pm - 8:00pm

SPI Dynamics Headquarters 115 Perimeter Center Place, N.E. Suite 1100
Atlanta, GA 30346

OWASP Atlanta - our mission as a local chapter of the Open Web
Application Security Project is to help promote awareness and
contributions to web application security.

Who Should Attend - anyone interested in Web Application Security
(management, security architects, developers, etc) This meeting is open
to public and admission/parking is free. Directions:
<http://www.spidynamics.com/aboutspi/contact/directions.html>

You must RSVP to attend this event.

Register to OWASP Atlanta mailing list at:
<http://lists.sourceforge.net/lists/listinfo/owasp-atlanta/>

Keynote Speaker: Shiroy Choksey Intern, SPI Labs S.P.I. Dynamics
Incorporated

Shiroy Choksey is an intern for SPI Dynamics, the expert in Web
application security assessment and testing. His internship with the
company is currently with SPI Labs, the renowned application security
research and development group within SPI Dynamics. Here he assists a
team of accomplished security experts in their research who have
received worldwide recognition for the identification of security
vulnerabilities and exploits. Prior to joining the SPI Labs team as an
intern, Shiroy completed his Bachelor of Engineering in Information
Technology with highest honors, from Pune University, India. He is
pursuing a Masters in Information Security from the Georgia Institute of
Technologyâ€™s Information Security Center (GTISC). At GTISC, he
extensively researches SQL Injection techniques and built his own SQL
Injection tool with support for generic database exploitation and IDS
evasion. Shiroy is a recipient of several prestigious awards including
the American Alumni Student Award, a distinguished award presented to
ten Indian students, the J. N. Tata Scholar Award for exemplary academic
achievement awarded to selected Indian students, and the Nirenski Study
Award that is awarded for consistent outstanding academic performance in
school. In addition, Shiroy is a talented musician, playing the piano
and the guitar, and has received numerous awards for best speaker at
debate competitions throughout his academic career.