The OWASP [Kansas City chapter](Kansas_City "wikilink") meeting in March
2007 was held from 6:30 to 8:30 pm on 3/7/2007. The location of the
meeting was at the local Microsoft office in Corporate Woods in Overland
Park (10801 Mastin Blvd, Suite 620).

### Meeting Summary

Dave Ferguson started the meeting with a welcome and brief overview of
OWASP. Membership options were described as well as the upcoming [Spring
of Code 2007](OWASP_Spring_Of_Code_2007 "wikilink") campaign where OWASP
will be offering cash payouts to individuals for a variety of different
approved projects. Everyone at the meeting then introduced themselves to
the group.

Our first speaker was Tom Stripling from Security PS. Tom's topic was
advanced script injection. He presented a variety of clever and
interesting ways that attackers can take advantage of vulnerabilities
and hinted as some nasty worm-like attacks that could start appearing in
the future.

Following a break, Rohini Sulatycki from VML had a very informative
presentation about the security issues around Adobe Flash. Rohini
discussed the growing popularity of Flash and some vulnerabilites that
existed in previous versions. Special attention was given to the
importance of understanding Flash Remoting and Shared Objects.

The evening ended with a couple of book giveaways. Microsoft provided
the group with two copies of Writing Secure Code (2nd Edition) by
Michael Howard and David LeBlanc. Two lucky attendees went home with a
copy.

### Documents

[Advanced Injection
Attacks](Media:KC_Mar2007_Advanced_Injection_Attacks.zip "wikilink")
(ppt within a zip)
[Adobe Flash Security](Media:KC_Mar2007_Flash_Security.pdf "wikilink")
(pdf)