## OWASP Kansas City

Welcome to the Kansas City chapter homepage. If you have any questions
about the Kansas City Chapter, please send an email to our chapter
leader, [Justin Ferguson](mailto:justin.ferguson@owasp.org) and [Joshua
White](mailto:joshua.white@owasp.org) and [Greg
Lahann](mailto:greg.lahann@owasp.org), or directly to our mailing list
at owasp-kansascity@lists.owasp.org.

**Our Mission:**

*OWASP-KCâ€™s mission is to be a welcoming community for Web Application
Developers and Information Security Professionals to learn, communicate,
and share their perspectives at a common table.*

We will be holding **regular** meetings on the 4th Tuesday of every
month (opposite [SecKC](http://www.seckc.org/)\!). Thanks to the
generosity of the [Kauffman Foundation](http://www.kauffman.org/), our
meetings are currently held at the Kauffman Foundation Conference Center
at 4801 Rockhill Road, Kansas City, MO.

## Participation

The OWASP Foundation is a professional association of global members and
is open to anyone interested in learning more about software security.
Local chapters are run independently and are guided by the Chapter
Leader Handbook. As a 501(c)(3) non-profit professional association your
support and sponsorship of any meeting venue and/or refreshments is
tax-deductible. Financial contributions should only be made online using
the authorized chapter donation button.

OWASP Kansas City is ALWAYS looking for speakers. If you have a
AppSec-focused project or topic you would like to present at an OWASP
meeting, please contact our chapter leaders\!

## Sponsorship/Membership

OWASP is a member-supported organization. OWASP membership is not
required to attend our meetings, but every time one of our members
[purchases an OWASP membership](Membership "wikilink"), some of those
funds come to our local chapter. We also appreciate all
[Donations](http://www.regonline.com/donation_1044369)\!

## Upcoming Meetings

Our meetings will be held the fourth Tuesday of each month\!

<meetup group="OWASP-Kansas-City" />

[OWASP-KC Meeting Archive](Kansas_City_Meeting_Archive "wikilink")

## Connect with OWASP-KC

Twitter: [@OWASPKC](http://twitter.com/OWASPKC)

LinkedIn: [OWASP Kansas City](https://www.linkedin.com/groups/8463040)

Mailing List: [OWASP KC E-mail
List](http://lists.owasp.org/mailman/listinfo/owasp-kansascity)

Facebook: [OWASP KC Facebook](http://facebook.com/OWASPKC/)

[Category:Missouri](Category:Missouri "wikilink")