The OWASP [Kansas City chapter](Kansas_City "wikilink") meeting in June
2007 was held from 6:30 to 8:30 pm on 6/13/2007. The location of the
meeting was at the offices of FishNet Security at 1627 Main Street in
Kansas City, MO.

### Meeting Summary

Dave Ferguson of FishNet Security started the meeting with a welcome and
overview of OWASP. Attendee Rohini Sulatycki briefly described the new
OWASP AJAX project, for which she is the project leader. Next, Dave
Ferguson announced that he would be stepping down as the OWASP Kansas
City chapter leader due to the fact that he is relocating to the Dallas,
TX area. A search for a new chapter leader will begin.

Our first speaker was Jake Reynolds from FishNet Security. Jake
described more than a dozen different Firefox extensions that involve
some aspect of web application security. Some, such as TamperData and
Web Developer, provide useful functionality for auditing/assessing the
security of an application. Others, such as
[HTTPOnly](HTTPOnly "wikilink") and NoScript, are specialized extensions
that can keep you safer when surfing the Internet.

Following a break, Barry Archer from American Century Investments
presented on the topic of web application firewalls. Specifically, Barry
talked about his experience with evaluating mod_security for Apache and
a particular commercial WAF product. Issues such as negative vs.
positive security models, the importance of having a well-designed log
format, and how to handle updates to an application were discussed.
Barry also explained why you need to understand HTTP in order to
properly "tune" a WAF.

### Documents

[Firefox as a Web Application Security Assessment
Tool](Media:KC_June_2007_Firefox_as_AppSec_Tool.zip "wikilink") (ppt
within a zip)
[Evaluating and Tuning Web Application
Firewalls](Media:KC_June_2007_Evaluating_and_Tuning_WAFs.pdf "wikilink")
(pdf)