The [Kansas_City](Kansas_City "wikilink") OWASP chapter met on
September 6, 2007 at Centriq Training in Leawood, KS.

### Meeting Summary

**Chapter Business**

Current chapter priorities include the following:

  - Volunteer to give an OWASP presentation
      - Talks can anything from a short review of a whitepaper or
        presentation you've seen, to a web application security tool or
        product review, to a longer technical talk about attacks or
        countermeasures
  - Volunteer your organization to host an OWASP meeting
  - Invite other professionals or students to attend our next OWASP
    meeting

**Speaker 1: Bob Phelps, National Bank Examiner with the Office of the
Comptroller of the Currency (OCC)**

Bob provided his insights on the financial regulatory environment and
how laws lead to specific information security standards and guidance.
Through his job he has performed a review of application security
practices in about a dozen midsize and large banks. Bob shared the
results of this review and provided his recommendations on how to
establish a sound application security management program.

At the OCC Bob both works with the Policy division in Washington DC and
has bank supervisory responsibilities. He leads and participates in
examinations of National Banks in NYC, KC, Omaha, and Minneapolis. His
Policy responsibilities include evaluating emerging technologies and
their impact on the banking system, evaluating trends in information
security, and developing and delivering various training programs to
other examiners.

**Speaker 2: Bruce K. Marshall, Senior Security Consultant with Security
PS**

Bruce spoke about how to avoid improperly using challenge questions
(e.g. “What is your pet’s name?”) for web app authentication. While
challenge questions tend to be user friendly they can also expose your
application to new security threats. He shared his experience on both
choosing the best challenge questions and how to properly integrate them
into your application.

Bruce consults with clients like American Express, Garmin, Microsoft,
and Commerce Bank to assess and improve their information security
strategies in areas like network security, web app security,
authentication, and program management.

### Documents

  - Bruce's [presentation
    slides](http://www.passwordresearch.com/files/AvoidingPoorChallengeQuestionAuthentication-OWASP.pdf)