Everyone is welcome to join us at our chapter meetings.

# Local News

**Meeting Location**

# About Karachi Chapter

The OWASP Karachi is FREE and OPEN to anyone interested in learning more
about application security mainly web application. We encourage
individuals to provide knowledge transfer via hands-on training and
presentations of specific OWASP projects and research topics and sharing
SDLC knowledge. The chapter is committed to providing an engaging
experience for a variety of audience types ranging from local students
and those beginning in app-sec, to those experienced and accomplished
professionals who are looking for competent collaborators for
OWASP-related projects. To this end, we will continue to conduct regular
presentations regarding application security at every level specifically
to the universities and corporate.

<b><font size="2">Goals</font></b>

OWASP Karachi shall enable organizations to develop, buy and maintain
web applications that can be trusted. That shall be done by:

  - Being a professional security community and an important meeting
    place for exchange of competence and experience related to
    application security, both theoretical and practical;
  - Promote establishment of social and professional relationships;
  - Contribute to identify, analyze and in a practical way solve
    important issues related to application security;
  - Being a leading actor and contribute to the development of methods,
    standards and services etc related to application security;
  - Being the ideal body of consultation for security questions related
    to application security that is important both for the members and
    for the society at large.

# Profiles

##### Haseen Usman Ahmed - Co-Chapter Leader

Haseen Usman Ahmed is a seasoned information security practioner having
diverse working experience ranging from Network design, Information
Security risk assessment, ethical hacking/Penetration testing incident
handling and digital forensics. He is also an articulate trainer and has
conducted numerous workshops and training sessions for clients such as
banks, universities and government agencies globally and have more than
8 years local and international trainings . He is also frequent speaker
and contributor on various research projects in the areas of information
assurance and information warfare and has authored material for many
large companies and involve design many IT security certifications. Some
of the certifications he holds are C)PTE, SANS GPEN, L |PT , E |CSA, C
|HFI, C |EH and ISO IEC 27001 etc.
<headertabs />

[Category:OWASP Chapter](Category:OWASP_Chapter "wikilink")
[Category:Pakistan](Category:Pakistan "wikilink") [Category:OWASP
Chapter](Category:OWASP_Chapter "wikilink")
[Category:Pakistan](Category:Pakistan "wikilink")