Following are the minutes of the meeting held on Jan 10, 2018 at Faya,
Technopark.

Date and Time: 10 - January - 2018 at 6 PM Venue: Meeting Hall, Faya,
Technopark Participants: Rejah, Binu, Rajesh, Jithin, Vignesh, Arun,
Hemanth, Adarsh, Jewel Agenda:

`   1. Prayer`

`   2. Summary of activities conducted by OWASP Kerala so far`

`   3. Restructuring of OWASP Kerala Chapter Board`

`   4. Event calendar`

`   5. Any other relevant matter to be discussed`

The meeting started with Prayer. Chapter Leader, Rejah welcomed the
gathering and explained about the current status of functioning of OWASP
Kerala. He emphasized the need for restructuring of the board and
conduct more events.

Binu explained about an event which he can conduct on behalf of OWASP
Kerala chapter at EY, Kinfra. The topic is Threat Intelligence
(Reference: capec.mitre.org). Date is not confirmed and will be decided
later.

Rajesh explained about a potential new structure of OWASP Kerala Chapter
board. He mentioned that there must be a Core Committee who is
accountable for functioning of OWASP Kerala. Such a committee should
have a Chairman, Secretary and Treasurer with representation from
Government, Industry and Academics. Rejah was elected unanimously as the
Secretary. Rajesh is temporarily assigned with the charge of Treasurer.
Based on the need post of Assistant Secretary can be created at a later
stage. We are in touch with the Head of e-Governance, Kerala for his
approval for accepting the role of Chairman.

To assist the core committee a Management committee is proposed by the
gathering with the following composition.

`   1. Adarsh - Academics`
`   2. Inter Group Relationship - TBD, Rajesh expressed his willingness`
`   3. Hemanth, Jithin - Social Media`
`   4. Events - Vignesh, Arun`
`   5. Call for Papers (CFP) - Jewel`
`   6. Workshops with CTF - Danish`

Adarsh mentioned that Student Chapters of OWASP should be formed in
colleges under the supervision of OWASP Kerala Chapter and in compliance
with the guidelines established by the OWASP global board.

Rejah proposed to initiate a Membership Campaign to increase the
membership base of OWASP Kerala chapter.

Next half day event is proposed on May first or second week conducted by
Hemanth and Adarsh at Technopark

The gathering decided to work towards hosting an AppSec Kerala in 2020

Vote of Thanks was proposed by Rajesh and the meeting concluded at 7:30
PM