### **Technical Talk on Security of the Internet**

**Venue**

  - Institution of Engineers Hall (Visvesvaraya Bhavan), Opposite
    Kanakakunnu Palace, Vellayambalam, Trivandrum.

**Date & Time**

  - December 3rd 2014 \[ Wednesday \] 5:45pm

#### **Event Sponser**

  - Institution of Engineers

#### **Event Details**

[OWASP Kerala Chapter](https://www.owasp.org/index.php/Kerala) in
association with Institution of Engineers (India) organizes a technical
talk on "Security of the Internet". The speaker is Er. Rajesh. P, Board
Member, OWASP. This program is Open to All and has No Registration Fees.

In commemoration of the World Computer Security day, this session deals
with the latest trends and challenges in Internet Security. The World
Computer Security day which was started in the year 1988 has the vision
of creating awareness of computer related security issues among general
public. In todayâ€™s world, the usage of Internet has proliferated
manifold and new kinds of security issues emerged as a result. Gone are
the ages of Anti-Virus and Network Security and we now have to deal with
Application Security problems predominantly. The session will discuss
the reasons behind application security issues and how OWASP emerged to
address them.

The session will help participants gain an understanding on Open Web
Application Security Project (OWASP) and how they bring better
visibility to Application Security so that people and organizations can
make informed decisions about application security risks.

**Speaker:** Rajesh is a passionate secure software programmer,
technology evangelist and certified ethical hacker. He has got more than
14 years of experience in IT industry and is currently a member of
[OWASP Kerala](https://www.owasp.org/index.php/Kerala) Board and serves
in the Management Committee of Computer Society of India, Trivandrum
Chapter. He is also a Life member of Institution of Engineers (India).

#### **Event Gallery**

Image:Kerala_dec_2014_internet_security_1.png| Rajesh Nair
Image:Kerala_dec_2014_internet_security_2.png| Rajesh Nair
Image:Kerala_dec_2014_internet_security_3.png| Audience
Image:Kerala_dec_2014_internet_security_4.png| Audience

#### Slides

[Security of
internet](http://www.slideshare.net/OWASPKerala/security-of-internet)