**Abstract:** Writing Secure code is the most effective method to
securing your web applications. Writing secure code takes skill and
know-how but results in a more stable and robust application and assists
in protecting an organisations brand. Application security is not
commonly a part of many computer science curricula today and most
organizations have not focused on instituting a culture that includes
application security as a core part of their software development
training efforts. This intensive one-day course focuses on the most
common web application security problems, including aspects of both the
OWASP Top Ten (2010) and the MITRE Top 25. The course will introduce and
demonstrate application assessment techniques, illustrating how
application vulnerabilities can be exploited so students really
understand how to avoid introducing such vulnerabilities in their code.

**This course includes coverage of the following areas:**

\- Unvalidated Input

\- Injection Flaws, OS commanding, SQL Injection

\- Cross-Site Scriping & Client-side security

\- CSRF/XSRF

\- Authentication & Session Management

\- Access control & Authorisation

\- Broken Caching

\- Error Handling & Resource Management

\- The Secure SDLC

\- Fuzzing, Proxy use and testing approach

**Hands on Exercises**

To cement the principles discussed, students can participate in a number
of hands-on security testing exercises where they attack a live web
application (i.e., OWASP Bank etc) that has been seeded with common web
application vulnerabilities.

The students will use proxy tools commonly used by the hacker community
to complete the exercises. Students need to bring their own windows
based laptop to participate in the exercises. Wireless capability is
recommended.

**Audience**: Developers who want to understand the most common web
application security flaws, and how to avoid them and code in a secure
manner.

Level: Beginner/Intermediate Prerequisite: Basic knowledge of a web
programming language like Java or .NET recommended but not required.

Bringing your own windows based laptop is recommended so you can
participate in the hands on exercises

**Trainer Bio:** Eoin Keary is a Global OWASP board member since 2009.
He is a long time member of OWASP and have contributed year on year to
OWASP projects and the OWASP mission of fighting the causes of software
insecurity. He is based in Dublin, Ireland and run the Ernst & Young
application security team across Europe.