**Leadership Essentials**

Today, every business function relies on custom software applications.
These applications are typically built under tremendous time pressure by
internal or contracted developers to fulfill a specific business need.
Organizations need to be able to trust that this software has
appropriate security mechanisms to thwart attacks and that the code does
not contain vulnerabilities. Even software product companies have an
extremely difficult time achieving trustworthy code, and experience
shows that most custom applications have far more vulnerabilities.
Recent market trends show a clear pattern: organizations need an
Application Security Initiative in order to achieve this level of trust
in their custom-built applications.

This course will provide answers to some of the key questions you may
have been challenged with:

1\. Why is application security so important?

2\. What are the most critical vulnerability areas to focus on and how?

3\. What security tools and technologies do software projects need?

4\. How do I establish an application security initiative in my
organization?

5\. How can I enhance my SDLC to include security activities?

6\. How do I measure my organization’s progress in application security?

7\. How can I get my developers to care about application security?

8\. What teams and roles should I create to address application
security?

9\. How do I get a handle on the security of my entire application
portfolio?

10\. What is the most effective way of securing legacy applications?

This is the right course at the right time for any executive or manager
who has decided that secure application development is a priority. The
analyst community is helping CIOs understand just how critical the
problem of insecure programming has become. For example the Robert
Francis Group (a well-known application development analyst group)
wrote:

“The lack of application security requirements and associated poor
security focus in the development process can cripple business
application security leading to significant revenue loss and perhaps
liability claims from anyone impacted by this oversight. IT executives
should review application development processes and direct development
teams to build in security, rather than consider it after the
application deployment.”

In this two-day management session you’ll get an industry perspective of
application security, understand the key vulnerabilities to
applications, be able to analyze root cause, and provide practical and
proven techniques in building out an application security initiative.
This course gives executives and managers the education and practical
guidance they need to ensure that software projects properly address
security. The course is designed to provide a firm understanding of the
importance of software security, the critical security activities
required within the software development lifecycle, and how to
efficiently manage security issues during development and maintenance.
This understanding is reinforced through industry awareness, live
demonstrations of commonly found application vulnerabilities and
workgroup exercises allowing attendees to conduct capability assessments
and recommend improvement plans.

**Audience**

The intended audience for this course is:

CISOs

CSOs

Program Managers

Account Managers

Functional/Resource Application Managers

Technical Program/Project Managers (Chief Engineers)

Executives

Directors

Key/Technical Decision Makers

**Learning Objectives**

At the highest level, the objective for this course is to ensure that
leaders and managers understand how to lead in a way that encourages
application security and why that is important.

**Topic and Learning Objective**

**Importance of Application Security** - Be aware of secure application
development and the value it brings

**State of the Industry** - Be able to compare your project with other
comparable companies efforts in application security

**Identifying Risks** - Understand that application security risks and
their associated business risks need to be identified for all
applications

**Security Areas** - Be aware of the key security areas and understand
the major threats to each

**Managing Application Security** - Understand application security root
causes, analyze an organization’s capability and utilize proven
techniques in planning and managing an effective application security
initiative.

**Process** - Understand how to successfully integrate secure coding
activities and techniques across the application development lifecycle

**People** - Be able to determine whether their team has the appropriate
skills to build a secure application, and how to build teams with the
required skills.

**Application Security Technologies** - Be familiar with common
application security tools and technologies for building secure web
applications and what security capabilities they provide