## The presentation

![Owasp_logo_normal.jpg](Owasp_logo_normal.jpg
"Owasp_logo_normal.jpg")The idea of creating web applications with
intentional vulnerabilities is nothing new. It seems that everyone
created at least one such application around the turn of the millennium.
The problem is, most of those applications haven't been updated since
then. In addition to being dated, these applications are largely closed
source, can be complicated to set up, and often conflict with one
another. In an effort to address these issues, this talk will describe a
new infrastructure for creating and running a variety of open source,
vulnerable web applications that all co-exist on a single virtual
machine.

## The speakers

Chuck Willis is a Technical Director with MANDIANT
(http://www.mandiant.com/), a full spectrum information security company
in Alexandria, Virginia, where he concentrates in web application
security, research, and development. Prior to joining MANDIANT, Chuck
performed security software engineering, penetration testing, and
vulnerability assessments at a large government contractor and also
conducted computer forensics and network intrusion investigations as a
U.S. Army Counterintelligence Special Agent. Chuck holds a Master of
Science in Computer Science from the University of Illinois at
Urbana-Champaign and has previously spoken at the Black Hat Briefings,
the OWASP AppSec Conference, the IT Underground security conference in
Europe, DefCon, and ShmooCon. Chuck has contributed to several open
source security software projects and is a member of the Open Web
Application Security Project, a Certified Information Systems Security
Professional, and a Certified Forensic Computer Examiner.

[Category:OWASP_AppSec_DC_09](Category:OWASP_AppSec_DC_09 "wikilink")
[Category:OWASP_Conference_Presentations](Category:OWASP_Conference_Presentations "wikilink")