**Ajax and Web 2.0**

This two-day class will cover common Web 2.0 and AJAX security threats
and vulnerabilities and it will provide specific guidance on how to
develop Web 2.0 applications to defend against these threats and
vulnerabilities. Training developers on secure coding practices offers
one of highest returns on investment of any security investment by
eliminating vulnerabilities at the source. Aspect’s Building Secure Ajax
and Web 2.0 Applications Course is designed to enable developers to
security utilize Web 2.0 technologies in their web applications without
introducing security issues. The course provides detailed examples of
‘what to do’ and ‘what not to do.' The class is lead by an experienced
developer and is delivered in a very interactive manner. This course is
intended to build on one of Aspect’s foundational secure coding courses.
The course will use demonstrations, code examples, and spot-the-bug
exercises to get developers engaged in the topic. Developers will leave
with an understanding of how Ajax attacks work, the impacts of
successful attacks, and what to do to defend against them.

**Audience**

The intended audience for this course is: Application developers

Software/System Architects

System Engineers

Security Engineers

**Learning Objectives**

At the highest level, the objective for this course is to ensure that
developers are capable of designing, building, and testing secure Web
2.0/Ajax-enabled applications and understand why this is important.

**Topic and Learning Objective**

**Principles** - Students should be able to apply the principles while
Ajax enabling applications to prevent vulnerabilities from being
introduced

**Architecture** - Students should be able to identify the key security
concerns in designing an Web 2.0 / Ajax application architecture and
evaluate solutions

**Authentication** - Students should know the key issues in building an
Web 2.0 / Ajax application that authenticates users and manages their
sessions without compromising their credentials

**Access Control** - Students should know the key issues in building an
Web 2.0 / Ajax application that prevents unauthorized access to
services, business logic, and data

**Validation** - Students should know the key issues in building an Web
2.0 / Ajax application that prevents injection and other attacks relying
on malformed input

**Data Protection** - Students should know the key issues in building an
Web 2.0 / Ajax application that properly protects data stored in the
browser