__NOTOC__

![LASCON 2010 Banner](OWASP_Lascon_Logo.gif "LASCON 2010 Banner")

##### Please see the [Sessions](http://www.owasp.org/index.php/Lonestar_Application_Security_Conference_2010#tab=Sessions) tab for the Powerpoints and Videos from LASCON 2010.

##### SAVE THE DATE: LASCON 2011 is happening on October 28th, 2011 in Austin, TX

|                                                         |                       |                                                             |                                                                  |
| ------------------------------------------------------- | --------------------- | ----------------------------------------------------------- | ---------------------------------------------------------------- |
| [Registration Link](http://guest.cvent.com/d/vdqf7g/4W) | Speaker List Posted\! | [Follow LASCONATX on Twitter](http://twitter.com/LASCONATX) | [Norris Conference Center](http://www.norriscenters.com/Austin/) |



#### Welcome

<table>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>style="width: 100%; color: rgb(0, 0, 0);"</p></td>
<td><table>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>style="width: 95%; color: rgb(0, 0, 0);"</p></td>
<td><p><strong>Who Should Attend LASCON 2010:</strong></p>
<ul>
<li>Application Developers</li>
<li>Application Testers and Quality Assurance</li>
<li>Application Project Management and Staff</li>
<li>Chief Information Officers, Chief Information Security Officers, Chief Technology Officers, Deputies, Associates and Staff</li>
<li>Chief Financial Officers, Auditors, and Staff Responsible for IT Security Oversight and Compliance</li>
<li>Security Managers and Staff</li>
<li>Executives, Managers, and Staff Responsible for IT Security Governance</li>
<li>IT Professionals Interested in Improving IT Security<br />
</li>
</ul>
<p><br />
<img src="LACON2010Schedule.png" title="fig:LACON2010Schedule.png" alt="LACON2010Schedule.png" width="800" /></p>
<p><strong><a href="http://guest.cvent.com/d/vdqf7g/4W">You can register for the conference here</a></strong></p>
<p><br />
</p></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table></td>
<td><p>style="border: 0px solid rgb(204, 204, 204); width: 100%; font-size: 95%; color: rgb(0, 0, 0);"</p></td>
<td><p>&lt;!-- DON'T REMOVE ME, I'M STRUCTURAL</p></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

<table>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>style="border: 1px solid rgb(204, 204, 204); width: 100%; font-size: 95%; color: rgb(0, 0, 0); background-color: rgb(236, 236, 236);"</p></td>
<td><p>-- Use the <strong><a href="https://twitter.com/appsec2010">#AppSec2010</a></strong> hashtag for your tweets (What are <a href="http://hashtags.org/">hashtags</a>?)</p>
<p><strong>@AppSec2010 Twitter Feed (<a href="https://twitter.com/appsec2010">follow us on Twitter!</a>)</strong> <twitter>appec2010</twitter>--&gt;<br />
</p></td>
<td><p>style="width: 110px; font-size: 95%; color: rgb(0, 0, 0);"</p></td>
<td><p><br />
</p></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>



#### Registration

## Registration Is Now Open\!

[Register Here](http://guest.cvent.com/d/vdqf7g/4W)

OWASP [Membership](Membership "wikilink") ($50 annual membership fee)
gets you a discount on registration.

|                                                            |                       |                        |
| ---------------------------------------------------------- | --------------------- | ---------------------- |
| Non-Members (Includes a 1 year OWASP membership)           | $150 Until 10/26/2010 | $200 After 10/26/2010  |
| OWASP Members                                              | $100 Until 10/26/2010 | $200 After 10/26/2010  |
| Students with valid Student ID (must be shown at the door) | $80 Until 10/26/2010  | $2000 After 10/26/2010 |

**Who Should Attend LASCON 2010:**

  - Application Developers
  - Application Testers and Quality Assurance
  - Application Project Management and Staff
  - Chief Information Officers, Chief Information Security Officers,
    Chief Technology Officers, Deputies, Associates and Staff
  - Chief Financial Officers, Auditors, and Staff Responsible for IT
    Security Oversight and Compliance
  - Security Managers and Staff
  - Executives, Managers, and Staff Responsible for IT Security
    Governance
  - IT Professionals Interesting in Improving IT Security


For student discount, you must present proof of current enrollment when
picking up your badge. No exceptions.

#### Sessions

## Keynote

**<font color=red>Matt Tesauro</font>**
**<font color=brown>Keynote</font>**
**Video:** [Link](http://vimeo.com/17822489)

\== Technical Track == **<font color=red>James Flom</font>**
**<font color=brown>[Why ha.ckers.org Doesn’t Get
Hacked](http://www.owasp.org/images/6/68/LASCON2010_Flom.pdf)</font>**

Ha.ckers.org has suffered nearly every attack a website can. These
attacks include robots, sophisticated web-based attacks, brute force,
denial of service, and network based attacks. This speech will explain
the other side of protecting high risk websites - the configurations,
operating system, and network.

**<font color=red>Charles Henderson and Garrett Held</font>**
**<font color=brown>Anatomy of a Logic Flaw</font>**

Traditional vulnerabilities like SQL Injection, buffer overflows, etc,
have well established techniques for discovery and prevention. On the
other hand, logic flaws are incredibly diverse and often unique to the
specific application or business organization. Because of this, logic
flaws have taken on a near mythical status. In the myth, logic flaws are
nearly impossible to find until the elite of the elite hackers launch an
attack to completely own the application. The reality is far different;
logic flaws are not the complex nightmare that many have made them out
to be. This presentation will use real-world examples to show how logic
flaws are typically introduced into an application, how they can be
consistently detected during testing, and how they can be prevented
during development. Instead of hoping for magic, repeatable processes
will be outlined for each of those items. This will prove beneficial to
anyone responsible for application security: programmers, architects,
managers, and pen testers.

**<font color=red>Chris Eng</font>**
**<font color=brown>[Deconstructing
ColdFusion](http://www.owasp.org/images/0/05/LASCON2010_Eng.pdf)</font>**

ColdFusion is a somewhat forgotten but still very prevalent web
application development platform. This presentation is a technical
survey of ColdFusion security that will be of interest mostly to code
auditors, penetration testers, and developers. In the talk, we'll cover
the history of the ColdFusion platform and its relevance to today's
security landscape. We'll describe basics of ColdFusion markup, control
flow, functions, and components and demonstrate how to identify common
web application vulnerabilities in the source code. We'll also delve
into ColdFusion J2EE internals, showing what CFML pages and components
look like when compiled down to Java, and describing some of the unusual
behavior we've observed at that level. We'll discuss open-source tools
to aid reverse engineers in working with ColdFusion's proprietary
classfile format.

**<font color=red>Robert Hansen and Josh Sokol</font>**
**<font color=brown>HTTPS Can Byte Me</font>**
**Video:** [Link](http://vimeo.com/17822849)

HTTPS was created to protect confidentiality and prove integrity of
content passed over the web. It has essentially become the de-facto
standard for internet commerce transport security. Over the years a
number of exploits have attacked the principle, underlying PKI
infrastructure and overall design of HTTPS. This presentation will drive
another nail in the HTTPS coffin through a number of new exploitation
techniques leveraging man-in-the-middle attacks; the goal of which is to
break confidentiality and integrity of HTTPS traffic. The impact of
these flaws suggests a need for changes in the ways we protect the
transmission of data online.

**<font color=red>Samy Kamkar</font>**
**<font color=brown>[How I Met Your
Girlfriend](http://www.owasp.org/images/6/61/LASCON2010_Kamkar.pdf)</font>**
**Video:** [Link](http://vimeo.com/17822912)

How I Met Your Girlfriend: The discovery and execution of entirely new
classes of attacks executed from the Web in order to meet your
girlfriend. This includes newly discovered attacks inclduing HTML5
client-side XSS (without XSS hitting the server\!), PHP session
hijacking and weak random numbers (accurately guessing PHP session
cookies), browser protocol confusion (turning a browser into an SMTP
server), firewall and NAT penetration via Javascript (turning your
router against you), remote iPhone Google Maps hijacking (iPhone
penetration combined with HTTP man-in-the-middle), extracting extremely
accurate geolocation information from a Web browser (not using IP
geolocation), and more.


## Management Track

**<font color=red>Charlie Scott and Jay Paz</font>**
**<font color=brown>[Conducting an Instiution-Wide, Multi-Department
Application Security
Assessment](http://www.owasp.org/images/6/6f/LASCON2010_Scott_Paz.pdf)</font>**

From early 2009 until mid-2010, the Information Security Office at the
University of Texas at Austin conducted a security assessment of over
250 web applications, spanning over 30 departments. The objectives of
this assessment were to provide a thorough security review of existing
applications, and act as an education and awareness exercise for the
application developers. This presentation covers the political,
technical, and scheduling challenges encountered on this assessment, how
they were overcome, the results of the assessment and the changes they
brought about, and lessons learned by the assessment team.

**<font color=red>Joe Jarzombek</font>**
**<font color=brown>Mitigating Business Risks with Application
Security</font>**
**Video:** [Link](http://vimeo.com/17822614)

With today’s global IT software supply chain, project management and
software/systems engineering processes must explicitly address security
risks posed by exploitable software. Traditionally, these disciplines
have not clearly and directly focused on software security risks that
can be passed from projects to the organization. Software security
assurance processes and practices span development and acquisition and
can be used to enhance project management and quality assurance
activities. Mr. Jarzombek explains the critical need for adherence to
the practices, guidelines, rules, and principles used to build security
into every phase of software development.

**<font color=red>Michael Howard</font>**
**<font color=brown>Everything useful I learned about software security,
I learned at Microsoft\!</font>**
**Video:** [Link](http://vimeo.com/17822721)

In this talk, Michael will discuss some of the things he has learned
over the last 10 years working on software security at Microsoft. The
Wins. The Losses, but most importantly, the Wisdom learned\!

**<font color=red>Erik Pace Birkholz</font>**
**<font color=brown>[Security Religions and Risk
Windows](http://www.owasp.org/images/8/80/LASCON2010_Birkholz.pdf)</font>**

There is a difference between what is possible and what is probable,
something we often lose sight of in the world of information security.
For example, a vulnerability represents a possible way for an attacker
to exploit an asset, but remember not all vulnerabilities are created
equal. Obviously, we must also keep in mind that a vulnerability's mere
existence does not necessarily mean it will be exploited, or indicate by
whom or to what extent. Some vulnerabilities are more difficult to
exploit than others and therefore attract different attackers.
Autonomous worms & viruses may attack one type of issue, while a
sentient targeted attacker may prefer another path. Better understanding
of these factors enables us to make informed business decisions about
website risk management and what is probable.

**<font color=red>Pete Perfetti</font>**
**<font color=brown>[Technology and Business Risk Management: How
Application Security Fits
In](http://www.owasp.org/images/b/b7/LASCON2010_Perfetti.pdf)</font>**

This presentation demonstrates how important application security is to
the overall stability and security of the infrastructure and the
ultimately, the business. Presented from the Information Security
Officer/Risk Manager point of view, it shows how a strong information
security program reduces levels of reputational, operational, legal, and
strategic risk by limiting vulnerabilities, increasing stability, and
maintaining customer confidence and trust. It focuses on the top
concerns of risk managers and how application security fits into the
overall risk management process. The audience will be given
recommendations on how to improve cost effectiveness and efficiency to
achieve business, security, audit, and compliance objectives relative to
applications.


## OWASP Etc Track

**<font color=red>Dean Bushmiller</font>**
**<font color=brown>[OWASP Top 10: What is it all
about?](http://www.owasp.org/images/6/63/LASCON2010_Bushmiller.pdf)</font>**

Everyone knows exactly what the OWASP top ten security threats are,
right? Well sort of... I ask people if they have heard of the top ten
they say yes. I ask them to name a few they pause, then they blurt out
2-3. Then I ask them to explain those 2-3 and they look at me like a
deer-in-the-headlights. I want to make sure that everyone who walks out
of the presentation can clearly define the top ten and be able to
communicate to another what each of the top ten vulnerabilites are.

**<font color=red>Brad Causey</font>**
**<font color=brown>[Automating Web Testing Beyond OWASP Webscarab Using
Python](http://www.owasp.org/images/5/55/LASCON2010_Causey.ppt) ([Python
Files](http://www.owasp.org/images/3/33/LASCON2010_Causey_Python_files.zip))</font>**

This presentation will illustrate ways to improve web security
assessments by using advanced features in OWASP Webscarab and extending
your options with automation using Python.

**<font color=red>Noa Bar-yosef</font>**
**<font color=brown>[Tell Me Your IP and I Will Tell You Who You
Are](http://www.owasp.org/images/7/7f/LASCON2010_BarYosef.pdf)</font>**

IP addresses have been traditionally considered an unreliable method for
attack detection. The unreliability is attributed to the use of web
proxies, NAT and non-static IP addresses for end-stations. This session
will demonstrate how information derived from IP addresses can in fact
be used to dramatically improve attack detection capabilities. The
presentation will discuss attributes such as Geo Location, Reverse DNS
Lookup, Anonymous Proxy lists and more. We discuss how IP intelligence
can be used to increase detection effectiveness (ratio of false
positives to false negatives) by "ruling" on otherwise indecisive
anomalies. We also discuss certain scenarios in which IP intelligence is
crucial for even detecting anomalies. The presentation is supported by
corroborative evidence derived from actual log data and demonstrates
some of the tools that can be used for analysis.

**<font color=red>Karen Lu and Asad Ali</font>**
**<font color=brown>[Enhancing Web Application Security Using another
Factor](http://www.owasp.org/images/5/5b/LASCON2010_Lu_Ali.pdf)</font>**

As web applications have become a necessity of contemporary societies,
there is an increasing need to secure access to these applications. This
talk explains how web applications can add the "what-you-have" factor to
strengthen user authentication and enhance the security, without
compromising the ease of use generally associated with the traditional
username/password method. In particular, we will describe smart card
based authentication methods, including OTP, TLS mutual authentication,
and X.509 certificate-based challenge/response. Although these methods
have their strengths and weaknesses in terms ofsecurity and usability,
they all significantly enhance the authentication for web
applications.

**<font color=red>Ernest Mueller</font>**
**<font color=brown>[Why The Cloud Is More Secure Than Your Existing
Systems](http://www.owasp.org/images/c/c5/LASCON2010_Mueller.pdf)</font>**

Security is frequently cited as the \#1 hindrance to the adoption of
cloud computing. Much of this concern is generated by the fact that
security is frequently cited as the \#1 hindrance to the adoption of
cloud computing. Come cut through the FUD and hear about ways in that
cloud systems are actually way more secure than what you already have
running in your enterprise, and how you as a security professional can
benefit from the cloud when creating secure systems.


#### Speakers

**<font color=red>Asad Ali</font>** is a senior researcher at Gemalto
Technology & Innovation group and is currently working on
next-generation smart card products. His research interests include
smart card operating systems, application frameworks, security
protocols, embedded file systems, smart card usability, and secure
portable tokens. He is co-inventor of the xID architecture for
plug-n-play smart cards, and the Network Card technology that won Card
Technology 2005 "Breakthrough Award for Innovation." He holds several
patents in the field of Smart Card connectivity and their ubiquitous
use, and has published extensively on these topics. Mr. Ali has a
Master's degree in Engineering from MIT.

**<font color=red>Noa Bar-Yosef</font>** is a Senior Security Strategist
at Imperva. Previously, she held the position of a senior security
researcher with the Imperva Application Defense Center. She conducted
research on database and Web application vulnerabilities. Prior to
Imperva, she has held TA positions in courses on programming and network
security at Tel Aviv University and Open University. She has also been a
software engineer with educational software vendor Sunburst Technology.
Bar-Yosef holds a MSc degree (specializing in information security) from
Tel-Aviv University, School of Computer Science and a BSc degree from
The Hebrew University, School of Computer Science. During her work in
Imperva, Noa has discovered multiple vulnerabilities in various
commercial applications and worked with software vendors on their
resolutions.

**<font color=red>Erik Pace Birkholz</font>**, CISSP is the author of
the best-selling book SPECIAL OPS: Host and Network Security and a
contributing author of five international best-selling books for
Osborne/McGraw-Hill including SQL Server Security, Hacking Windows 2000
Exposed and Hacking Exposed: Network Security Secrets and Solutions.
Erik is an award-winning speaker who has presented to audiences
worldwide, including NATO, the Pentagon, the NSA, and five of the Black
Hat Briefings. In late 2006, Birkholz became the Manager of Global
Information Security Assurance for Dell. Since January 2010, Erik has
worked as a Director for WhiteHat Security (www.whitehatsec.com).
conferences around the world (including past Black Hat, SOURCE, IAFCI,
OWASP AppSec USA, OWASP AppSec Europe, and Merchant Risk Council events)
on various subject matters relating to application security.

**<font color=red>Dean Bushmiller</font>** has taught for 12 years. He
is the recipient of five Mission Coins from various military branches.
He has led national certification organizations in development, policy,
and educational materials for over 10 years. He has presented,
consulted, and instructed government, education, military, and private
organizations. Dean has worked for SANS, ISC2, and other security
training organizations. He has bee the keynote speaker at information
security conferences as well as state and local colleges. He is now
Director of Training for Expanding Security.

**<font color=red>Brad Causey</font>** is an active member of the
security and forensics community world­wide. Brad tends to focus his
time on Web Application security as it applies to global and enterprise
arenas. He is currently employed at a major international financial
institution as a security analyst. Brad is the President of the OWASP
Alabama chapter, a member of the OWASP Global Projects Committee and a
contributor to the OWASP Live CD. He is also the President of the
International Information Systems Forensics Association chapter in
Alabama. Brad is an avid author and writer with hundreds of publications
and several books. Brad currently holds certifications in the following
arenas: MCSA, MCDBA, MCSE, MCT, MCP, GBLC, GGSC­100, C |EH, CIFI,
CCNA,IT Project Management+, Security+, A+, Network+, CISSP, CGSP.

**<font color=red>Chris Eng</font>** is Senior Director of Research at
Veracode, where he helps define and implement the security analysis
capabilities of Veracode's service offerings. He is a regular speaker at
information security conferences including BlackHat, OWASP, and RSA, and
has presented on a diverse set of application security topics ranging
from attacking cryptography to building an SDLC. Chris' professional
experience includes stints at Symantec, @stake, and the US Department of
Defense, where he specialized in software security assessments,
penetration testing, and vulnerability research. Along with experts from
more than 30 US and international cyber security organizations, he
recently helped develop the CWE/SANS Top 25 Most Dangerous Programming
Errors.

**<font color=red>James Flom</font>** has been working in the computer
industry for the past sixteen years and has spent the last twelve
heavily involved in computer and network security. As lead operations
engineer of Pilot Network Services' security department he researched
network and computer threats on a daily basis protecting some of the
largest companies and organizations in the world. He designed and
implemented what was believed to be at the time, the largest network
intrusion detection system in the world, protecting over half a million
computers. Mr. Flom later joined Digital Island (acquired by Cable &
Wireless and merged with Exodus), where he created new product offerings
for the Security Operations Center he was brought on to build. After the
merger with Exodus James joined the Cyber Attack Tiger Team and assisted
with the detection and recovery of several global network security
compromises. Mr. Flom later became the director of consulting services
for Kliosystems before co-founding SecTheory. He is a member of IACSP.

**<font color=red>Robert “RSnake” Hansen</font>**, CISSP is the founder
of SecTheory and has worked for Digital Island, Exodus Communications
and Cable & Wireless in varying roles from Sr. Security Architect and
eventually product managing many of the managed security services
product lines. He also worked at eBay as a Sr. Global Product Manager of
Trust and Safety, focusing on anti-phishing, anti-DHTML malware and
anti-virus strategies. Later he worked as a director of product
management for Realtor.com. Robert sits on the advisory board for the
Intrepidus Group, Just Thrive, previously sat on the technical advisory
board of ClickForensics and currently contributes to the security
strategy of several startup companies.

**<font color=red>Garrett Held</font>** is a Senior Security Consultant
at Trustwave. He is a member of Trustwave's SpiderLabs - the advanced
security team focused on penetration testing, incident response, and
application security. He has been involved in the Information Technology
industry for more than 14 years, with over 7 years specializing in
Information Security. Prior to Trustwave he worked as a Security
Consultant for Deloitte & Touche, where he worked with Fortune 500
corporations and state governments.

**<font color=red>Charles Henderson</font>** is the Director of
Application Security Services in Trustwave's SpiderLabs. He has been in
the information security industry for over fifteen years. His team
specializes in application security including application penetration
testing, code review, and training in secure development techniques. The
team's clients range from the largest of the Fortune lists to small and
midsized companies interested in improving their application security
posture. Charles routinely speaks at various conferences around the
world (including past Black Hat, SOURCE, IAFCI, OWASP AppSec USA, OWASP
AppSec Europe, and Merchant Risk Council events) on various subject
matters relating to application security.

**<font color=red>Michael Howard</font>** is a principal security
program manager on the Trustworthy Computing (TwC) Group’s Security
Engineering team at Microsoft, where he is responsible for managing
secure design, programming, and testing techniques across the company.
He is an architect of the Security Development Lifecycle (SDL), a
process for improving the security of Microsoft’s software. He is also
an editor of IEEE Security & Privacy, a frequent speaker at
security-related conferences and he regularly publishes articles on
secure coding and design, Howard is the co-author of six security books,
including the award-winning Writing Secure Code, 19 Deadly Sins of
Software Security, The Security Development Lifecycle and his most
recent release, Writing Secure Code for Windows Vista.

**<font color=red>Joe Jarzombek</font>** is the Director for Software
Assurance in the National Cyber Security Division of the U.S. Department
of Homeland Security (DHS). He leads government interagency efforts with
industry, academia, and standards organizations to shift the security
paradigm away from patch management by addressing security needs in work
force education and training, more comprehensive diagnostic
capabilities, and security-enhanced development and acquisition
practices. After retiring from the U.S. Air Force as a Lt. Col. in
program management, Joe Jarzombek worked in the cyber security industry
as vice president for product and process engineering. He served in two
software-related positions within the Office of the Secretary of Defense
prior to accepting his current DHS position. Throughout his career he
has actively lead process improvement initiatives, including serving on
the CMMI Product Development Team and later on the CMMI Steering Group.
He has continued to co-lead efforts to integrate safety and security
into integrated Capability Maturity Models (CMMs).

**<font color=red>Samy Kamkar</font>** is best known for the Samy worm,
the first XSS worm, infecting over one million users on MySpace in less
than 24 hours. A co-founder of Fonality, Inc., an IP PBX company, Samy
previously led the development of all top-level domain name server
software and systems for Global Domains International (.ws). In the past
10 years, Samy has focused on evolutionary and genetic algorithmic
software development, Voice over IP software development, automated
security and vulnerability research in network security, reverse
engineering, and network gaming.

**<font color=red>Dr. Karen Lu</font>** is a principal research engineer
at Gemalto, a digital security company. Her research interests include
cloud security, Internet security, web application security, networking,
communications, and smart card applications. She has published over 50
papers and holds 8 patents. Karen has a PhD in Computer and Electrical
Engineering from the University of Pittsburgh in the United States. She
is a Certified Information System Security Professional (CISSP), a
senior member of IEEE, and a member of OWASP.

**<font color=red>Ernest Mueller</font>** got in trouble for security
scanning his company’s systems during his first college internship back
in 1990. After graduating from Rice University, he did systems work for
FedEx corporate IT back when Cops, Crack, and SATAN were the hot
security tools. After working for a Web startup, he moved to Austin to
manage the Web Systems team at National Instruments. Currently, Ernest
is the Web systems architect on the LabVIEW team for NI’s cloud-based
SaaS products. He is active in the DevOps movement, the Austin chapter
of OWASP, the Austin Cloud Computing Users Group, and writes for
theagileadmin.com.

**<font color=red>Jay Paz</font>**, SCJP, GSEC, GSSP-Java, a web
application developer for over 10 years, joined the UT Austin
Information Security Office as an Information Security Analyst in July
of 2008. With his experience and knowledge of the UT development
environment, he was able to make an immediate impact on the ISO Risk
Management team. His main focus is application security, however the
team is tasked with assessing risk for the entire enterprise. From
printers to credit card terminals, from border devices to CAT I
compliant servers, they take care of it all.

**<font color=red>Pete Perfetti</font>** has been working in information
security for fifteen years. He has been involved in IT Security for the
financial services industry for ten years where he has worked as an
Information Security Officer as well as having been responsible for
vulnerability and threat management, and security engineering. Mr.
Perfetti worked for Viacom and MTV as the Manager of Systems
Administration and was the Director of IT Risk Management for the
National Basketball Association. He has a broad range of experience in
both operations and security. He was formerly the VP of the NY/NJ Metro
Chapter of OWASP and is currently a board member of the local chapter.
Mr. Perfetti’s accomplishments have been discussed in two books on
achieving high performing, stable, and secure infrastructure. Currently
Mr. Perfetti operates IMPACT Security LLC, a private security contractor
firm, that specializes in Incident & Audit Response, Prevention, and
Recovery; as well as developing, enhancing, and implementing Security
and Risk Management programs.

**<font color=red>Charlie Scott</font>**, CISSP, GSEC, GCIH, GCPM, has
worked in information security for over ten years. He joined the UT
Austin Information Security Office as a Sr. Information Security Analyst
in 2006, after working for the City of Austin and several Internet data
centers. He has a strong background in network and system security, and
finds application security fun and challenging-especially in a
distributed campus environment. Charlie is currently pursuing his MS in
Information Security Engineering.

**<font color=red>Josh Sokol</font>**, CISSP graduated from the
University of Texas at Austin with a BS in Computer Science in 2002.
Since that time, he has worked for several large companies including AMD
and BearingPoint, spent some time as a military contractor, and is
currently employed as the Information Security Program Owner at National
Instruments. In his current role, Josh manages all compliance, security
architecture, risk management, and vulnerability management activies for
NI.

**<font color=red>Matt Tesauro</font>** is a security consultant for
Praetorian, an independent security firm that built its reputation on
its expertise, integrity, professionalism, and client satisfaction. He
has worked in Information Technology for more than 10 years. His focus
has been in application security including testing, code reviews, design
reviews and training. Matt is currently on the board of the OWASP
Foundation and is the project leader of the OWASP WTE (Web Testing
Environment) which produces Live CDs and Virtual Machines. Matt has
presented and provided training at industry events including DHS
Software Assurance Workshop, AppSec EU, AppSec US, and AppSec Brazil.


#### Volunteers

## Volunteers Needed\!

Get involved\!

We will take all the help we can get to pull off the best Web
Application Security Conference of the year\! Volunteers get free
admission. This is your chance to rub elbows with the big players and
mingle with potential networking contacts or even future employers\!


Please contact james.wickett(at)owasp.org to volunteer for a specific
area:

  - Room Monitors
  - Speakers and Trainers
  - Vendors
  - Registration
  - Facilities

More opportunities and areas will be added as time goes on. Our
![Image:Volunteer Sheet.doc](Volunteer_Sheet.doc
"Image:Volunteer Sheet.doc") can be downloaded which outlines some of
the responsibilities and available positions. Note: this document
references the the DC conference last year, this is just for a general
guideline. Updated document coming soon.



#### Sponsors

## Platinum Sponsors

|                                              |
| -------------------------------------------- |
| **YOUR COMPANY NAME AND LOGO COULD BE HERE** |
|                                              |

## Gold Sponsors

<table>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td><figure>
<img src="Gemalto.jpg" title="Gemalto.jpg" alt="Gemalto.jpg" width="185" /><figcaption>Gemalto.jpg</figcaption>
</figure></td>
<td><figure>
<img src="Whitehat.jpg" title="Whitehat.jpg" alt="Whitehat.jpg" width="274" /><figcaption>Whitehat.jpg</figcaption>
</figure></td>
<td><figure>
<img src="Splunk.jpg" title="Splunk.jpg" alt="Splunk.jpg" /><figcaption>Splunk.jpg</figcaption>
</figure></td>
<td><p><img src="Impactsecurityllc.png" title="fig:Impactsecurityllc.png" alt="Impactsecurityllc.png" /><br />
<strong>Impact Security LLC</strong></p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p> </p></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

## Silver Sponsors

<table>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td><figure>
<img src="K2share.gif" title="K2share.gif" alt="K2share.gif" width="150" /><figcaption>K2share.gif</figcaption>
</figure></td>
<td><figure>
<img src="Dexa.jpg" title="Dexa.jpg" alt="Dexa.jpg" width="150" /><figcaption>Dexa.jpg</figcaption>
</figure></td>
<td><p><img src="Expandingsecurity.jpg" title="fig:Expandingsecurity.jpg" alt="Expandingsecurity.jpg" width="150" /><br />
<strong>Expanding Security</strong></p></td>
<td><figure>
<img src="Trustwave.jpg" title="Trustwave.jpg" alt="Trustwave.jpg" width="150" /><figcaption>Trustwave.jpg</figcaption>
</figure></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>        <img src="Fortify.png" title="fig:Fortify.png" alt="Fortify.png" width="150" /></p></td>
<td><figure>
<img src="Veracode.gif" title="Veracode.gif" alt="Veracode.gif" width="150" /><figcaption>Veracode.gif</figcaption>
</figure></td>
<td><figure>
<img src="Praetorian.jpg" title="Praetorian.jpg" alt="Praetorian.jpg" width="150" /><figcaption>Praetorian.jpg</figcaption>
</figure></td>
<td><figure>
<img src="Denim-group.png" title="Denim-group.png" alt="Denim-group.png" width="150" /><figcaption>Denim-group.png</figcaption>
</figure></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

## Badge Sponsor

|                                           |
| ----------------------------------------- |
| ![Gemalto.jpg](Gemalto.jpg "Gemalto.jpg") |
|                                           |

#### Venue

## Norris Conference Center

LASCON 2010 will be taking place at the [Norris Conference
Center](http://www.norriscenters.com/Austin/) in Austin, TX.



#### Travel

## Traveling to the Austin Metro Area

#### Hotel

We have partnered with the Embassy Suites in the Arboretum and you can
book rooms at using the discount code: LAS at 1-800-362-2779
begin_of_the_skype_highlighting              1-800-362-2779      end_of_the_skype_highlighting
begin_of_the_skype_highlighting              1-800-362-2779      end_of_the_skype_highlighting
begin_of_the_skype_highlighting              1-800-362-2779      end_of_the_skype_highlighting
begin_of_the_skype_highlighting              1-800-362-2779      end_of_the_skype_highlighting
begin_of_the_skype_highlighting              1-800-362-2779      end_of_the_skype_highlighting
begin_of_the_skype_highlighting              1-800-362-2779      end_of_the_skype_highlighting
begin_of_the_skype_highlighting              1-800-362-2779      end_of_the_skype_highlighting
begin_of_the_skype_highlighting              1-800-362-2779      end_of_the_skype_highlighting
begin_of_the_skype_highlighting              1-800-362-2779      end_of_the_skype_highlighting
begin_of_the_skype_highlighting              1-800-362-2779      end_of_the_skype_highlighting
begin_of_the_skype_highlighting              1-800-362-2779      end_of_the_skype_highlighting
begin_of_the_skype_highlighting              1-800-362-2779      end_of_the_skype_highlighting
or you can [Book your room
online.](http://embassysuites.hilton.com/en/es/groups/personalized/AUSESES-LAS-20101025/index.jhtml?WT.mc_id=POG)

Embassy Suites Austin - Arboretum 9505 Stonelake Boulevard Austin, Texas
78759

The rooms are $139 for a double or queen, includes hot breakfast and
shuttle to/from the event.

[Book your room online with the LASCON
discount.](http://embassysuites.hilton.com/en/es/groups/personalized/AUSESES-LAS-20101025/index.jhtml?WT.mc_id=POG)

#### Sponsorship Options

We are currently soliciting sponsors for the LASCON 2010 Conference.
Please refer to our [List of Sponsorship
Opportunities](http://www.owasp.org/images/2/24/LASCON_Sponsorship_Options.pdf)

Please contact [James Wickett](mailto:james.wickett@owasp.org) for more
information.

Slots are going fast so contact us to sponsor today\!

![Image:LASCON_2010_Sponsors.jpg](LASCON_2010_Sponsors.jpg
"Image:LASCON_2010_Sponsors.jpg")

![Image:LASCON_2010_Additional.jpg](LASCON_2010_Additional.jpg
"Image:LASCON_2010_Additional.jpg")

#### Call for Papers

**Sorry, the CFP has ended for LASCON 2010. Maybe next year?** -- OWASP
is currently soliciting papers for the Lonestar Application Security
Conference (LASCON) 2010 that will take place at the Norris Conference
Center in Austin, TX on October 29, 2010.

Submit Proposals to:
<http://www.easychair.org/conferences/?conf=lascon2010>

We are seeking people and organizations that want to present on any of
the following topics (in no particular order):

` - Business Risks with Application Security`
` - Starting and Managing Secure Development Lifecycle Programs`
` - Web Services and XML Application Security`
` - Metrics for Application Security`
` - Application Threat Modeling`
` - Hands-on Source Code Review`
` - Web Application Security Testing`
` - OWASP Tools and Projects`
` - Secure Coding Practices (J2EE/.NET/Ruby)`
` - Web Application Security countermeasures`
` - Technology specific presentations on security such as AJAX, XML, etc`
` - New Cutting-edge Application Security trends`
` - Anything else relating to OWASP and Application Security`

To make a submission you must include :

` - Presenter(s) name(s)`
` - Presenter(s) Email and/or Phone number(s)`
` - Presenter(s) bio(s)`
` - Title`
` - One Page Abstract`
` - Links to past presentations (if available)`
` - Any supporting research/tools (will not be released outside of CFP committee)`


Submission deadline is August 30th at 12PM PST (GMT -8)

Not everyone who submits a proposal will be able to get to present at
LASCON due to limited timeslots. Also, in no way does sponsorship factor
into the CFP committee's selection. Speaking slots are not for sale.

Submit Proposals to:
<http://www.easychair.org/conferences/?conf=lascon2010> Conference
Website:
<http://www.owasp.org/index.php/Lonestar_Application_Security_Conference_2010>


Please forward to all interested practitioners and colleagues.


\--\>

<headertabs />

[Category:OWASP_AppSec_Conference](Category:OWASP_AppSec_Conference "wikilink")
[Category:OWASP_AppSec_USA](Category:OWASP_AppSec_USA "wikilink")