[**Long Island chapter is a proud sponsor of Women in
AppSec 2013**](http://appsecusa.org/2013/activities/owasp-women-in-application-security-appsec-program/)

[**Become a Member NOW**](https://myowasp.force.com/memberappregion)


Educational Supporter:
Corporate Silver Supporter:
![Secdec-logo_division.png](Secdec-logo_division.png
"Secdec-logo_division.png")

__NOTOC__

# News and Chapter Meetings

**Our chapter is a proud organizer and sponsor of [New York Metro Joint
Cyber Security Conference, NYMJCSC 2015](http://nymjcsc.org/agenda.htm).
Submit your speaking proposal online before August 6, 2015.**

## **Next Meetings**


All present & future meetings are posted on
![Owasp_meetup_logo_1.png](Owasp_meetup_logo_1.png
"Owasp_meetup_logo_1.png").


-----

-----

**Call For Sponsors, Topics and Speakers**

If you are interested in presenting or have a topic you'd like
discussed, or if you want to sponsor a future meeting, please contact
please contact a [Long Island Board
Member](mailto:longislandleaders@owasp.org)



<center>

If you join our [mailing
list](http://lists.owasp.org/mailman/listinfo/owasp-longisland), then
you will receive details of the meeting as soon as they are finalized.

</center>

<center>

To be a co-sponsor for this or a future meeting consider [annual chapter
sponsorship](http://www.owasp.org/index.php/Membership)

</center>

<center>

If you can host an upcoming meeting please contact a [Long Island Board
Member](https://www.owasp.org/index.php/Long_Island#tab=Chapter_Board_Members_and_Contacts).

</center>

# Past Meetings

### ''' January 2015 '''

  - **Date & Time:** Thursday, January 22, 2015 from 6:30 PM to 9:00 PM
    (ET)
  - **Location:** Huntington LaunchPad， 315 Main Street, 2nd Fl,
    Huntington, NY.
  - **[RSVP
    Requested](http://www.meetup.com/OWASP-Long-Island-Meetup/events/219671551/)**

The meeting is free. Food and drink will be provided by our chapter
supporter, Secure Decision.

  - **Aliens in Your Apps\! Are You Using Components with Known
    Vulnerabilities?**

We all know that Open Source brings speed, innovation, cost savings and
more to our development efforts. It also brings risk. Bash, Heartbleed,
Struts – anyone? Thus the OWASP A9 guideline – Don’t Use Components with
Known Vulnerabilities.

Join this session to hear the latest research on the most risky open
source component types – the alien invaders hiding in your software.
Explore the technical realities of why is has been so hard to fully
eradicate vulnerable open source components. And learn best practices to
manage your risk based on the 11,000 people who shared their experiences
in the 4 year industry–wide study on open source development and
application security. Among the surprising results…

`   1-in-3 organizations had or suspected an open source breach in the last 12 months`
`   Only 16% of participants must prove they are not using components with known vulnerabilities`
`   64% don’t track changes in open source vulnerability data`

Join Brian for what is sure to be an engaging and insightful assessment
of these trends with practical approaches to solving the problem today.

  - **About the Speaker:**

<!-- end list -->

  -
    Brian Fox is VP of Product Management at Sonatype, with extensive
    open source experience as a member of the Apache Software Foundation
    for the past 7 years and former Chair of the Apache Maven project.
    Brian has provided significant development contributions to the
    Maven ecosystem, including the maven-dependency-plugin and
    maven-enforcer-plugin. He has over 15 years of experience driving
    the vision behind, as well as developing and leading the development
    of software for organizations ranging from startups to large
    enterprises. Brian holds a Bachelor of Science degree in Computer
    Science from Daniel Webster College.



### ''' October 2014 '''

  - **Date & Time:** Wednesday, October 15, 2014 from 6:30 PM to 9:30 PM
    (ET)
  - **Location:** Adelphi University 1 South Avenue， Garden City, NY
    11530. Direction details are below.
  - **[RSVP
    Requested](http://www.meetup.com/OWASP-Long-Island-Meetup/events/198775852/)**
  - **Topics: Android Wear and Google Glass**

<!-- end list -->

  -
    Android Wear and Google Glass introduce new ways of interacting with
    our apps and receiving timely, contextual information from the world
    around us. Smartphones and tablets are becoming the central point
    for sending and receiving data from wearables and sensors. Building
    apps for a wearable world introduces new risks as well as shifts the
    responsibilities for implementing security controls to other layers.

<!-- end list -->

  - **About the Speaker:**

<!-- end list -->

  -
    Jack Mannino is the CEO at nVisium and loves solving problems in the
    field of application security. With experience building, breaking,
    and securing software, he founded nVisium to invent new and more
    efficient ways of protecting software. Jack is a huge fan of
    contributing to open source projects, and leads the OWASP Northern
    Virginia chapter. In his spare time, he loves to kick around new
    frameworks and technologies, especially things that run Android.
    He’s also an optimistic Mets fan, although that optimism slowly
    fades away every summer.


\===''' August 2014 '''===

  - **Date & Time:** Wednesday, August 20, 2014 from 6:30 PM to 9:30 PM
    (ET)
  - **Location:** Adelphi University - Hauppauge Center 55 Kennedy Drive
    Hauppauge, NY 11788
  - **Topics:** OWASP / SWAMP(Software Assurance Market Place)
  - '''[RSVP
    requested](http://www.meetup.com/OWASP-Long-Island-Meetup/events/196329372/)
  - **OWASP / SWAMP Abstract:**

<!-- end list -->

  -
    You may have heard the recent announcement of a strategic
    partnership between OWASP and the DHS-sponsored Software Assurance
    Marketplace (SWAMP). The SWAMP is an evolving national resource for
    software assurance, and a partnership between them and OWASP will be
    valuable to both organizations. You can learn about this growing
    relationship at <https://www.owasp.org/index.php/SWAMP_OWASP>.
    Secure Decisions, a division of Applied Visions, is a local research
    and development firm with strong ties to the DHS Science and
    Technology directorate, and has direct involvement in the SWAMP. Ken
    Prole, Hassan Radwan, and Anita D’Amico will be presenting an
    overview of the SWAMP, including its architecture, its history, and
    a brief demonstration of its capabilities. Come prepared for a
    lively discussion on the value and challenges of the SWAMP and how
    those impact OWASP and the larger application security community.


\===''' June 2014 '''===

  - **Date & Time:** Wednesday, June 18, 2014 from 6:30 PM to 9:30 PM
    (ET)
  - **Location:** TIBCO Software Inc. offices 200 Garden City Plaza
    \#220 Garden City, NY 11530
  - **Register:** Free food and drinks will be provided. RSVP required.
    [Click
    Here](https://www.eventbrite.com/e/owasp-long-island-ny-meeting-topic-heartbleed-tickets-11827846407?ref=ebtnebregn)
  - **Topics:** Heartbleed
  - **Heartbleed Abstract:**

<!-- end list -->

  -
    The Heartbleed Bug is a serious vulnerability in the popular OpenSSL
    cryptographic software library. This weakness allows stealing the
    information protected, under normal conditions, by the SSL/TLS
    encryption used to secure the Internet.
    The Heartbleed bug allows anyone on the Internet to read the memory
    of the systems protected by the vulnerable versions of the OpenSSL
    software. This compromises the secret keys used to identify the
    service providers and to encrypt the traffic, the names and
    passwords of the users and the actual content. This allows attackers
    to eavesdrop on communications, steal data directly from the
    services and users and to impersonate services and users.
    Resources for the discussion:
      -
        [OWASP /
        Heartbleed_Bug](https://www.owasp.org/index.php/Heartbleed_Bug)
    Other External Resources:
      -
        <http://heartbleed.com/>

<!-- end list -->

  - **About the Speaker:**

<!-- end list -->

  -
    Tom Brennan has been a volunteer to the OWASP Foundation since 2004
    when he founded the [New Jersey
    Chapter](http://www.meetup.com/OWASP-New-Jersey/) after serving on
    the Board of Directors for the FBI Infragard program in New Jersey.
    The NJ OWASP Chapter later merged with the New York City Chapter in
    2006 creating [OWASP NYC Metro
    Chapter](http://www.meetup.com/OWASP-NYC). Tom was appointed to the
    Global Board of Directors in 2007 by his peers and was
    [re-elected](https://www.owasp.org/index.php/Membership/2012_Election#2012_Board_Election_RESULTS)
    by the membership for another term.

<!-- end list -->

  -
    During his leadership within the OWASP Foundation, he has led many
    global and local initiatives for OWASP. Tom holds many industry
    certifications since he began his technical journey in 1983
    including the (ISC)²® CBK / CISSP and many others.

<!-- end list -->

  -
    Tom is also the founder of
    [proactiveRISK](http://www.proactiverisk.com/)


\==''' April 2014 '''==

  - **Date & Time:** Monday, April 28, 2014 from 7:00 PM to 9:30 PM (ET)
  - **Location:** TIBCO Software Inc. offices 200 Garden City Plaza
    \#220 Garden City, NY 11530
  - **Topics:** Brainstorming session for organizing chapter activities
    and requesting volunteers for new board members.
  - **Abstract:**

<!-- end list -->

  -
    This is a meeting to brainstorm ideas on how to outreach and
    organize chapter activities. This is also a greet and meet
    opportunity for people who want to join the chapter board. Whether
    you are ready to join the board or not, you are welcome to the
    meeting or email your suggestions to helen.gao at owasp.org.
    A simple dinner will be provided.


[Secure Decisions](http://securedecisions.com/), a division of [Applied
Visions Inc.](http://www.avi.com/) is a sponsor of this meeting.
[TIBCO Software Inc.](http://www.tibco.com/) is a sponsor of this
meeting.


\==''' April 2013 '''==

  - **Date & Time:** Thursday, April 25, 2013 from 6:30 PM to 9:30 PM
    (ET)
  - **Location:** TIBCO Software Inc. offices 200 Garden City Plaza
    \#220 Garden City, NY 11530
  - **Topics:** RailsGoat & GoatDroid

<!-- end list -->

  - **RailsGoat Abstract:**

<!-- end list -->

  -
    While working to secure rails applications in a truly Agile
    development environment, it became clear that the Rails and Ruby
    ecosystem needed attention from the security community in the form
    of free and open training, and the events that have transpired
    within the last few months have only reinforced that belief.
    RailsGoat is an attempt to bring attention to both the problems that
    most frequently occur in Rails as well as the solutions for
    remediation. To accomplish this, we've built a vulnerable Rails
    application that aligns with the OWASP Top 10 and can be used as a
    training tool for Rails-based development shops.

<!-- end list -->

  - **About the Speaker:**

<!-- end list -->

  -
    Ken Johnson is the former Manager of LivingSocial.com's application
    security team where he built their security program before leaving
    for his true home as the CTO of nVisium Security, a VA-based
    application security company. Ken is the primary developer of the
    Web Exploitation Framework and contributes to other open source
    application security projects as often as time permits. He has
    spoken at AppSec DC 2010 and 2012, OWASP NoVA and Phoenix chapters,
    Northern Virginia Hackers Association (NoVAH) and is a contributor
    to the Attack Research team.


\----
\* **GoatDroid Abstract:**

  -
    Like it or not, your developers copy and paste code and "borrow"
    ideas from open source projects. This presentation will detail the
    results of analyzing over 100,000 Android applications available
    publicly on GitHub. We will examine the most prevalent frameworks
    and libraries in use and discuss their implications for security.
    Our focus is less theoretical and more practical based on what
    developers are actually doing and using within their apps. From
    there, we will take a deeper look at common vulnerabilities that are
    systemic throughout the Android application ecosystem. We will look
    at specific examples of vulnerable real-world applications, and fix
    code on the fly.

<!-- end list -->

  - **About the Speaker:**

<!-- end list -->

  -
    Jack Mannino is the CEO of nVisium Security, a VA-based application
    security company. At nVisium, he helps to ensure that large
    corporations, government agencies, and software startups have the
    tools they need to build and maintain successful security
    initiatives. He is an active Android security researcher/tinkerer,
    and has a keen interest in identifying security issues and trends on
    a large scale. Jack is a leader and founder of the OWASP Mobile
    Security Project. He is the lead developer for the OWASP GoatDroid
    project, and is the chairman of the OWASP Northern Virginia chapter.


\==''' December 2012 '''==

  - **Date & Time:** Thursday, December 13, 2012 from 6:30 PM to 9:00 PM
    (ET)
  - **Location:** Room 108 on the first level of Hagedorn Hall of
    Enterprise (Building HHE on Map upper right), Adelphi University
  - **Topics:** Thread Modeling
  - **About the Speaker:**

<!-- end list -->

  -
    Dr. Kees Leune is an Information Security Officer, Strategist,
    Professor, Mentor, Adviser, Consultant, Speaker and occasional open
    source developer. He blogs at http://www.leune.org and can be found
    on Twitter as @leune. Kees has extensive experience in information
    security and holds several professional certifications, including
    the CISSP, GCIH, GCFA, CISM, and CISA.


\==''' September 2012 '''==

  - **Date & Time:** Monday, September 24, 2012 from 6:30 PM to 9:00 PM
    (ET)
  - **Location:** IT conference room in the lower level of Hagedorn Hall
    of Enterprise (Building HHE on Map upper right), Adelphi
  - **Topics:** Top 10 Web Defenses through Secure Application
    Programming
  - **Abstract:**

<!-- end list -->

  -
    Top Ten Web Defenses We cannot hack or firewall our way secure.
    Application programmers need to learn to code in a secure fashion if
    we have any chance of providing organizations with proper defenses
    in the current threatscape. This talk will discuss the 10 most
    important security-centric computer programming techniques necessary
    to build low-risk web-based applications.

<!-- end list -->

  - **About the Speaker:**

<!-- end list -->

  -
    Jim Manico is the VP of Security Architecture for WhiteHat Security,
    a web security firm. Jim is a participant and project manager of the
    OWASP Developer Cheatsheet series. He is also the producer and host
    of the OWASP Podcast Series.

<!-- end list -->

  - **Meeting Replay Video:**
    <http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r12yiXnagbY&sns=em>


\==''' May 2012 '''==

  - **Date & Time:** Thursday, May 10, 2012 from 7:00 PM to 9:30 PM (ET)
  - **Location:** IT conference room in the lower level of Hagedorn Hall
    of Enterprise (Building HHE on Map upper right), Adelphi University.
  - **Topics:** OWASP Top 10 Mobile Risks / Practical Android Security
  - **Abstract:**

<!-- end list -->

  -
    Building secure Android applications can be achieved with a mix of
    common sense, leveraging platform security features, and following
    secure development best practices. This presentation will focus on
    security “quick wins” during development and will cover techniques
    that can reduce the overall attack surface within Android
    applications.
    The OWASP GoatDroid and OWASP MobiSec tools will be used throughout
    the presentation to demonstrate issues encountered in the real
    world. We will cover the attack surface for Android and highlight
    the most prevalent security flaws found within production
    applications.
      -
        Topics:
        :\*Mobile Application Security
        :\*OWASP GoatDroid
        :\*OWASP MobiSec

<!-- end list -->

  - **About the Speaker:**

<!-- end list -->

  -
    Jack Mannino is the CEO of nVisium Security, an application security
    firm located within the Washington DC area. At nVisium, he helps to
    ensure that large corporations, government agencies, and software
    startups have the tools they need to build and maintain successful
    application security initiatives. He is an active Android security
    researcher, and has a keen interest in identifying security issues
    and trends on a large scale. Jack is the leader and founder of the
    OWASP Mobile Security Project. He also serves as a board member on
    the OWASP Northern Virginia chapter. Jack is also the lead developer
    for the OWASP GoatDroid Project, which is a collection of vulnerable
    Android applications used for training and education.

<!-- end list -->

  - [One of Jack's presentations on mobile
    security](http://www.slideshare.net/JackMannino/owasp-top-10-mobile-risks)


\==''' February 2012 '''==

  - **Date & Time:** Thursday, February 16, 2012 from 7:00 PM to 9:30 PM
    (ET)
  - **Location:** IT conference room in the lower level of Hagedorn Hall
    of Enterprise (Building HHE on Map upper right), Adelphi University.
  - **Topics:** Dr. Kees Leune - Lab utilizing some of the OWASP 10
    vulnerabilities with BackTrack 5.
  - **Abstract:**

<!-- end list -->

  -
    Topics:
    :\*Overview of BackTrack
    :\*Overview of some tools on BackTrack (nmap,
    JohnTheRipper,MetaSploit)
    :\*Overview of the lab challenge (covers multiple owasp top 10
    vulns)
    ***Laptops are needed if you wish to participate in the lab
    exercise\!***

<!-- end list -->

  - **About the Speaker:**

Dr. Kees Leune is an Information Security Officer, Strategist,
Professor, Mentor, Adviser, Consultant, Speaker and occasional open
source developer. He blogs at <http://www.leune.org> and can be found on
Twitter as @leune. Kees has extensive experience in information security
and holds several professional certifications, including the CISSP,
GCIH, GCFA, CISM, and CISA.


\==''' September 2011 '''==

  - **Date & Time:** Thursday, September 22, 2011 from 6:30 PM to 9:30
    PM (ET)
  - **Location:** University Club Facility at David Mack Hall, Hosftra
    University, Hempstead, NY 11549-1000
  - **Topics:** Web application Vulnerabilities & Round Table
    Discussions Coordinated by Ryan Behan
  - **Abstract:**

<!-- end list -->

  -
    **Helen Gao - [Cross-site
    scripting](https://www.owasp.org/images/c/c3/OWASPTop10XSSLongIsland.pdf),
    the most prevalent. Web application vulnerability:** Helen will
    discuss one of the most widespread Web application Vulnerabilities.
    How can an application be attacked and how to protect yourself.

<!-- end list -->

  - **About the Speaker:**

<!-- end list -->

  -
    Helen Gao has worked in the field of information security since
    1991. Helen has worked as an application developer, project manager,
    and software architect. Her employment history includes working at a
    financial institution, a market research company, a high-tech device
    manufacturer and a software company. Helen is currently a senior
    architect at TIBCO Software Inc. Her job duties include the design
    and development of complex event processing software. The protection
    of information security in such systems is challenging, due to their
    strict performance requirements in terms of high event throughput
    and low processing latency. Helen welcomes the challenge and uses
    the knowledge she obtained from OWASP to manage project life cycles.


\-----
\* **Abstract:**

  -
    Topics:
    :\*Recent Attack on Infraguard Website.
    :\*Security as a Service Model vs. Internally Managed Security -Five
    years from now, what will IT look like?
    :\*LulzSec, Anonymous, A-Team - Motivations for attacks? How do
    small-medium size businesses protect themselves from this?
    Insurance, increased IT budgets?

<!-- end list -->

  - **About the Speaker:**

<!-- end list -->

  -
    Ryan Behan is the Director of Internal IT at Netsmart Technologies
    Inc. He is a strong proponent of information sharing, application
    security and improving business agility through automation and
    scalable infrastructure.


\==''' May 2011 '''==

**May**

  - Date: Saturday, May 14, 2011
  - Time: 12:30pm - 3:30pm
  - Location: Student Center, Hosftra University, Hempstead, NY
    11549-1000
  - Topics & Speakers:


Robert Gezelter -
**Minimum Necessary Implementation: Reducing Attack Surface increase
Security**
Ensuring the security and integrity of web-based applications is a
constant challenge. Web-based applications are inherently
customer-facing, and an attractive avenue of attack. However,
vulnerability is often unnecessarily increased by poor technology
choices. Different technologies have different degrees of vulnerability.
ActiveX creates a higher exposure than Java or JavaScript, which in turn
has more potential for abuse than simple CSS. Some approaches (e.g.,
unguarded SQL queries) are particularly vulnerable to attack (e.g., SQL
injection); other approaches unnecessarily create exposures by requiring
unrestricted trust (e.g., ActiveX).
Judicious division of responsibilities between clients and servers is
another aspect of the same problem, as clients are inherently
less-trustable than servers. We will examine how using the minimum
necessary technology reduces attack surface, decreases vulnerabilities,
and decreases costs.

About the speaker - Mr. Gezelter has more than 30 years of international
consulting experience on architectures, protocols, and implementation
techniques in both the private and public sectors. He has spoken widely
at conferences throughout the United States and internationally. He has
also published numerous technical papers and book chapters, including
two chapters in the Computer Security Handbook, 5th Edition and two
chapters in the Handbook of Information Security. He also publishes
Ruminations - An IT Blog on a variety of topics relating to Information
Technology and systems architect.


\==''' March 2011 '''==

  - **Date & Time:** Sunday, March 27, 2011 from 12:00 PM to 3:00 PM
    (ET)
  - **Location:** 2nd Floor, Jericho Public Library, 1 Merry Lane,
    Jericho, New York 11753
  - **Topics:** Intro to the OWASP Mobile Project, The Exploit
    Intelligence Project and Demo / Web Vulnerabilities Intro
  - **Abstract:**

<!-- end list -->

  -
    The OWASP Mobile Project is in its infancy, but has generated a lot
    of interest in the security and mobile development communities.
    Recently, delegates at the OWASP Summit in Portugal started laying
    the ground work to help guide the project through its inaugural
    year. One of the objectives for this year will be to ratify the
    current, unofficial OWASP Mobile Top 10 List. This presentation will
    do a deep dive into the current list, citing real world examples of
    insecure mobile applications.

<!-- end list -->

  - **About the Speaker:**

<!-- end list -->

  -
    Rajendra Umadas, OWASP Member


\----
\***Abstract:**

  -
    In 2011, mass malware is still the most common source of compromise
    on corporate networks. Bots like Zeus, Gozi, and Clampi successfully
    infect devices despite organizations carefully managing disclosed
    vulnerabilities and subscribing to detailed analysis of the latest
    malware families. Existing efforts at malware prevention focus
    broadly on vulnerabilities and their impact yet ignore the means by
    which they are exploited and the motivations, opportunities and
    capabilities of attackers, which has allowed this problem to become
    worse year-after-year.

<!-- end list -->

  -
    In this talk, I introduce an intelligence-driven approach to malware
    defense, focusing on attacker's capabilities and methods, with data
    collected from the most popular crimeware packs currently deployed
    in-the-wild. This analysis identifies the means by which exploits
    are developed and selected for inclusion in crimeware packs,
    identifies defenses that are outside the capability of malware
    exploit writers to bypass, and helps attendees evaluate not just the
    exploitability, but the probability of a vulnerability being
    exploited. This study shows that, until crimeware packs
    substantially advance in sophistication, only a few simple defensive
    tactics are required to protect users from such opportunistic
    threats.

<!-- end list -->

  - **About the Speaker:**

<!-- end list -->

  -
    [Dan Guido](http://pentest.cryptocity.net/blog/), OWASP NY/NJ Board
    Member


\----
\***Abstract:**

  -
    [WebScarab](http://www.owasp.org/index.php/Category:OWASP_WebScarab_Project)
    Demo / Web Vulnerabilities Intro WebScarab is a framework for
    analysing applications that communicate using the HTTP and HTTPS
    protocols. It is written in Java, and is thus portable to many
    platforms. WebScarab has several modes of operation, implemented by
    a number of plugins. In its most common usage, WebScarab operates as
    an intercepting proxy, allowing the operator to review and modify
    requests created by the browser before they are sent to the server,
    and to review and modify responses returned from the server before
    they are received by the browser. WebScarab is able to intercept
    both HTTP and HTTPS communication. The operator can also review the
    conversations (requests and responses) that have passed through
    WebScarab.

<!-- end list -->

  -
    In this demo we'll use WebScarab against some emulated
    vulnerabilities developed by Blake Cornell.

<!-- end list -->

  - **About the Speaker:**

<!-- end list -->

  -
    [Ryan Behan](http://www.linkedin.com/pub/ryan-behan/9/746/a12),
    OWASP LI Board Member

# Chapter Board Members and Contacts

  - [Helen Gao](mailto:heleng@owasp.org) - Helen is passionate about
    information security. She founded the Long Island chapter in 2006.
    Helen works in the Garden City office of TIBCO Software Inc. She is
    a senior software architect. She is also a Certified Information
    Systems Security Professional, CISSP. Helen was the OWASP Security
    Person of the Year in 2012.

<!-- end list -->

  - Dr. Kees Leune - Dr. Leune is Adelphi University's Information
    Security Officer, where his responsibilities include all aspects of
    the University's information security posture, include strategy,
    architecture, policy and incident response. He teaches as an adjunct
    professor, and is a gold adviser for the Global Information
    Assurance Certification (GIAC). Kees is active on Twitter as @leune
    and (occasionally) blogs at www.leune.org.

<!-- end list -->

  - Frank Zinghini - Frank is founder and president of Applied Visions
    Inc. (AVI), a software engineering firm specializing in custom
    application development for commercial and government customers. The
    Secure Decisions division of AVI specializes in cyber security
    research and development for the Department of Defense, Department
    of Homeland Security, and the Intelligence Community; that research
    has produced Code Dx, an Application Security Testing platform that
    integrates open source and commercial SAST and DAST technology for
    effective analysis and remediation of software vulnerabilities.

<!-- end list -->

  - Charles Beganskas

<headertabs />

## External Links

  - [OWASP Top 10 Mobile Risk presentation in AppSec DC on April, 2012.
    By Jack Mannino, Mike Zusman, Zach
    Lanier](http://www.slideshare.net/JackMannino/owasp-top-10-mobile-risks)
  - [OWASP Job Board](https://www.owasp.org/index.php/OWASP_Jobs)
  - [AppSec Tutorial on
    YouTube](http://www.youtube.com/user/AppsecTutorialSeries)
  - [OWASP video and
    photos](http://www.owasp.org/index.php/OWASP_Training#tab=Videos_.26_Pictures)
  - [Industry
    Citations](http://www.owasp.org/index.php/Industry:Citations)
  - [OWASP Top 10 for 2010 was released on
    April 19, 2010](http://owasptop10.googlecode.com/files/OWASP%20Top%2010%20-%202010.pdf)

[Category:New York](Category:New_York "wikilink")