<paypal>Luxembourg</paypal>

## Local News

Join our [LinkedIn
group](http://www.linkedin.com/groups?gid=1781989&trk=anetsrch_name&goback=.gdr_1238414238580_1)\!

### OWASP BeNeLux Day 2017

We are proud to announce the dates of the next edition of BeNeLux OWASP
Day\! The event will take place on 23 (trainings) and 24 (conference)
November 2017, in Tilburg - The Netherlands.

See [OWASP_BeNeLux-Day_2017](OWASP_BeNeLux-Day_2017 "wikilink") for
more details.

### OWASP BeNeLux Day 2016 - II

We are proud to announce the dates of the next edition of BeNeLux OWASP
Day\! The event will take place on 24 (trainings) and 25 (conference)
November 2016, in Leuven - Belgium.

See [BeNeLux OWASP Day 2016-2](BeNeLux_OWASP_Day_2016-2 "wikilink") for
more details.

### OWASP BeNeLux Day, March 17 & 18, 2016 in Esch-sur-Alzette, Luxembourg

We are proud to announce that like in 2011, the OWASP BeNeLux Day will
be held in Belval Campus, Esch-sur-Alzette, Luxembourg. More information
on [www.owaspbenelux.eu](http://www.owaspbenelux.eu)\!

### OWASP AppSecEU 2015, 19-22 May 2015, Amsterdam, The Netherlands

The Luxembourg chapter is co-organizing together with Belgium and
Netherlands chapters this amazing conference to be held in Amsterdam
this spring\! More information on the [conference
website.](http://2015.appsec.eu)

Hope to see you there\!

### French translation of Top Ten

The Luxembourg chapter, in collaboration with other volunteers (French
and Swiss) is currently involved in the French translation of the OWASP
Top Ten for 2013 (available in release candidate here: [OWASP Top 10
- 2013 - Release
Candidate](http://owasptop10.googlecode.com/files/OWASP%20Top%2010%20-%202013%20-%20RC1.pdf)).

The final version of Top Ten should be available in May, and the French
version should be available a few days after the release of the original
version. The document is usually translated into different languages
(German, Spanish, Italian, Chinese, etc.)

People potentially interested to contribute to the German translation,
can contact the
[OWASP_German_Language_Project](OWASP_German_Language_Project "wikilink").

### OWASP BeNeLux Day 2011, December 1st & 2nd 2011 @ University of Luxembourg

We are proud to announce that OWASP BeNeLux Day 2011 will take place on
December 1st & 2nd 2011 at the University of Luxembourg.

  - **December 1st 2011: Training Day**

OWASP Training: Secure Application Development, by Eoin Keary This
intensive one-day training focuses on the most common web application
security problems, including aspects of both the OWASP Top Ten (2010)
and the MITRE Top 25. The training will introduce and demonstrate
application assessment techniques, illustrating how application
vulnerabilities can be exploited so students really understand how to
avoid introducing such vulnerabilities in their code



  - **December 2nd 2011: Conference Day**

List of confirmed speakers (more to be announced soon):

  - Brenno De Winter (Journalist) on the Diginotar story
  - Koen Vanderloock (Lead Security Competence Group at Cegeka) on the
    new OWASP Simba project
  - Justin Clarke (Director and Co-Founder of Gotham Digital Science
    Ltd) on practical crypto attacks against web applications
  - Lieven Desmet (Research Manager at University Leuven) on HTML5
    security
  - Andrey Belenko (Chief Security Researcher at ElcomSoft Co. Ltd) on
    iOS data protection internals
  - Alexandre Dulaunoy (Incident Management - Security Research at
    CIRCL) on dynamic malware analysis
  - Ludovic Petit (Group Fraud & Information Security Adviser at SFR,
    Vodafone Group) on WebApp Security and legal and regulatory aspects
  - Seba Deleersnyder & Eoin Keary (OWASP Board) on OWASP Update


For more information and updates, please check out
[www.owaspbenelux.eu](http://www.owaspbenelux.eu/)

Interested in sponsoring the event and the Luxembourg Chapter in 2012?
Please contact Jocelyn Aubert (Jocelyn.Aubert\[at\]owasp.org)\!


### OWASP @ [YAJUG](http://www.yajug.org/) (Java User Group, Luxembourg)

The Luxembourg Chapter will participate to the next YAJUG (Java User
Group, Luxembourg) event:

**YAJUG - How to Secure your Java Applications** *Wednesday, May 27th
2009 - 17:45*

[Centre de Recherche Public Henri Tudor](http://www.tudor.lu) - 29,
avenue John F. Kennedy - L-1855 Luxembourg-Kirchberg

Agenda:

  - 17h45 - Welcome and registration
  - 18h00 - Introduction to Cryptography with JCA and JCE, Sébastien
    Stormacq, Sun Microsystems (French, slides in English)
  - 19h15 - [OWASP Top 10 Security Breaches for Java Web
    Applications](http://www.owasp.org/images/b/bb/2009-05-27_owasp%40yajug.ppt),
    Jocelyn Aubert, OWASP-LU (French, slides in English)
  - 20h30 - Drink

The whole program is available on [YAJUG
website](http://www.yajug.org/confluence/display/Public/Future+Events).

**Note:** This event is NOT an OWASP event\! You have to register on
YAJUG website (fee: 40 euros).

### OWASP @ [C3L](http://www.c3l.lu/) (Chaos Computer Club Lëtzebuerg)

*Monday, April 6th 2009* - 20:00 (...until late in the night)

Brasserie [Seppl](http://www.seppl.lu/) (Club-Room) -
Luxembourg-Limpertsberg

Agenda:

  - 15 minutes intro OWASP Luxembourg Chapter
  - remaining time - Technical Chaos regarding OWASP

## Chapter Board

The Luxembourg chapter is supported by the following board:

  - ADELSBACH André
  - AUBERT Jocelyn
  - DULAUNOY Alexandre
  - RIGHETTO Dominique
  - STEICHEN Pascal
  - ZOLLER Thierry

## Chapter Sponsors

OWASP Luxembourg thanks its structural chapter supporters from OWASP
BeNeLux Days 2018:

<center>

![Vest.jpg](Vest.jpg "Vest.jpg") ![DavinsiLabs.png](DavinsiLabs.png
"DavinsiLabs.png")

</center>

[Category:Europe](Category:Europe "wikilink")