![Owaspmadurai.png](Owaspmadurai.png "Owaspmadurai.png")

## OWASP Madurai

Welcome to the Madurai chapter homepage. The chapter leaders are [T K
Kishore](mailto:tk.kishore@owasp.org) and [K S C
Soundarya](mailto:ksc.soundarya@owasp.org)

[Click here](https://lists.owasp.org/mailman/listinfo/owasp-madurai) to
join the local chapter mailing list.

## Participation

OWASP Foundation ([Overview
Slides](https://docs.google.com/a/owasp.org/presentation/d/10wi1EWFCPZwCpkB6qZaBNN8mR2XfQs8sLxcj9SCsP6c/edit?usp=sharing))
is a professional association of [global members](Membership "wikilink")
and is open to anyone interested in learning more about software
security. Local chapters are run independently and guided by the
[Chapter_Leader_Handbook](Chapter_Leader_Handbook "wikilink"). As a
[501(c)(3)](About_OWASP "wikilink") non-profit professional association
your support and sponsorship of any meeting venue and/or refreshments is
tax-deductible. Financial contributions should only be made online using
the authorized online chapter donation button. To be a <b>SPEAKER</b> at
ANY OWASP Chapter in the world simply review the [speaker
agreement](Speaker_Agreement "wikilink") and then contact the local
chapter leader with details of what OWASP PROJECT, independent research
or related software security topic you would like to present on.

## Sponsorship/Membership

![Btn_donate_SM.gif](Btn_donate_SM.gif "Btn_donate_SM.gif") to this
chapter or become a local chapter supporter. Or consider the value of
[Individual, Corporate, or Academic Supporter
membership](Membership "wikilink"). Ready to become a member?
![Join_Now_BlueIcon.JPG](Join_Now_BlueIcon.JPG
"Join_Now_BlueIcon.JPG")

## Chapter Supporters

Some of the organizations supporting OWASP Madurai chapter are below:

[Unicorn Crafts](https://www.instagram.com/__unicorn__craft__/)
[RazzSecurity](http://Razzsecurity.com)
For more information on how to support OWASP Madurai chapter in helping
organise free and open security meets contact the chapter leader

## Local News

**`Meeting``   ``Location``   ``:``   ``Madurai360``   ``Office`**
`OWASP Meetup Date : 25 OCT 2019 `
` Time : 10 AM to 2 PM.`

Everyone is welcome to join us at our chapter meetings.

# *' Connect Us on Social Networks.*'

**[Facebook ID](https://www.facebook.com/OWASPMADURAI)** **[Twitter
ID](https://twitter.com/owaspmadurai)** **[Instagram
ID](https://www.instagram.com/owaspmadurai/)**

[Category:OWASP Chapter](Category:OWASP_Chapter "wikilink")
[Category:OWASP Chapter](Category:OWASP_Chapter "wikilink")
[Category:OWASP Chapter](Category:OWASP_Chapter "wikilink")
[Category:India](Category:India "wikilink")