We are incredibly grateful to have the support of our various sponsors,
who have contributed time, money, and other resources in order to help
support our chapter:

  - Sage Data Security
  - Mozilla
  - GuidePoint Security

## Chapter Meetings

Everyone is welcome to join us at our chapter meetings. We currently
meet once per quarter, at the Portland Public Library. Upcoming meetings
are announced on our [meetup page](https://www.meetup.com/OWASP-Maine/).
We try to hold meetings on the first Tuesday of each quarter, subject to
venue availability. Meetings run from 6:00 - 8:00 PM.

### Next Meeting

Tuesday, January 8, 2019 6:00 - 7:00 PM, Portland Public Library

### Previous Meetings

**`October``   ``23,``   ``2018`**` - Portland`

**`July``   ``31,``   ``2018`**` - Portland`

**`April``   ``10,``   ``2018`**` - Portland`

**`January``   ``9,``   ``2018`**` - Portland`

**`October``   ``10,``   ``2017`**` - Portland`

Speakers

Jonathan Claudius (Mozilla) - Mozilla Observatory/ ssh_scan

Scott MacCallum (PPL) - GNU/Linux commands for forensic analysis

Andrew Sylvia (Sage Data Security) - CyberShield

Willis Vandevanter - Silly Toy Hack - 5 minute show and tell

**`July``   ``11,``   ``2017`**` - Portland`

**`May``   ``25,``   ``2017`**` - Portland`

Board Meeting

**`January``   ``19,``   ``2017`**` - Portland`

Food will graciously be provided by our sponsor, Mozilla\! Since this
event will be hosted at the Public Library, alcohol is not permitted.

Security Impact of Unique Functionality - suspiciouslow

Differentiation is an essential aspect of any company’s product. Unique
web application functionality is the modern form of product
differentiation. Unfortunately, the security controls added to unique
functionality are often very basic and easily bypassed. This talk will
discuss the security impact of often overlooked functionality (Tooltips)
and unique functionality (API Browser) in the Palo Alto Networks
firewall. The talk will very briefly describe a stored cross-site
scripting vulnerability (PAN-SA-2016-0014) in the firewall web
application and how it impacts the security controls in the Palo Alto
Networks API Browser (PAN-SA-2016-0032) functionality.

Brief Insight into Wearable Development and Operating Systems -
@th3l3mons

Smartwatches and fitness trackers make up the brunt of current wearable
technology. However, these devices are becoming far more accessible and
versatile, and are able to do more than simply interface with a mobile
device. Join us as we talk the basics of wearable development, including
PebbleOS and Tizen.

**`July``   ``25,``   ``2017`**` - Portland`

6:00pm - Arrive

6:15pm - Introduction / Quick Overview

6:30pm - Hostile Domain Takeover Vulnerabilities - Presenter: @claudijd

6:45pm - Reproducible Builds - A set of software development practices
which create a verifiable path from human readable source code to the
binary code used by computers. Presenter: Scott C. MacCallum, scm.guru

7:00pm - Public Libraries and Privacy - Presenter: @SamanthaMarcy

7:15pm - Mobile Penetration Testing - Presenter: @forced_request

7:30pm - 9pm - Networking

## Maine OWASP Chapter Leaders

**President**

  - [Ingrid Olson](mailto:ingrid.olson@owasp.org)

__NOTOC__

**Board of Directors**

  - Johnathan Claudius - Financial Czar, Pizza Czar
  - John Poulin - Social Media Czar
  - Scott MacCallum
  - Andrew Sylvia

__NOTOC__

[Category:OWASP Chapter](Category:OWASP_Chapter "wikilink")
[Category:United States](Category:United_States "wikilink")
[Category:Maine](Category:Maine "wikilink")