## The presentation

![JeffWilliams2.jpg](JeffWilliams2.jpg "JeffWilliams2.jpg")How much
would it cost to convince a developer to insert a few special lines of
Java in your application? Would you detect the attack before it went
live? How much damage could it do? Malicious developers are the ultimate
insiders. With a very small number of lines of Java, they can steal all
your data, corrupt systems, install system level attacks, and cover
their tracks. A trojaned Struts or Log4j library could affect most of
the financial industry at once.

This technical talk will examine some of the techniques that malicious
programmers can use to insert and hide these attacks in a Java web
application. What can organizations do to minimize the risk of malicious
Java developers? We'll review the benefits and limitations of technical
controls, such as sandboxes, configuration management, least privilege,
and intrusion detection. We'll also discuss the use of detection
techniques such as code review and static analysis tools. Finally, we'll
talk about people and organizational issues that can help minimize this
risk.

A long technical paper and an Eclipse project with all the code examples
is
[available](http://www.aspectsecurity.com/documents/EnterpriseJavaRootkits.zip).

## The speaker

**[Jeff Williams](User:Jeff_Williams "wikilink")** is the founder and
CEO of [Aspect Security](http://www.aspectsecurity.com/), specializing
exclusively in application security professional services. Jeff also
serves as the volunteer Chair of the [Open Web Application Security
Project (OWASP)](http://www.owasp.org/). He has made extensive
contributions to the application security community through OWASP,
including writing the [Top Ten](topten "wikilink"),
[WebGoat](WebGoat "wikilink"), [Secure Software Contract
Annex](legal "wikilink"), [Enterprise Security API](ESAPI "wikilink"),
[OWASP Risk Rating
Methodology](OWASP_Risk_Rating_Methodology "wikilink"), and starting the
worldwide [local chapters program](chapters "wikilink"). If nothing
else, Jeff is probably the tallest application security expert in the
world and likes nothing better than discussing new ideas for changing
the way we build software.

[Category:OWASP_AppSec_DC_09](Category:OWASP_AppSec_DC_09 "wikilink")
[Category:OWASP_Conference_Presentations](Category:OWASP_Conference_Presentations "wikilink")