# Upcoming Events

## Listing of Upcoming Events

### OWASP Malta Chapter Meeting, December, 2018

**When:**

  - Date: Wednesday 19th December 2018
  - Time: 18:30

**Where:**

Malta Information Technology Agency

MITA Data Centre, Triq Il - Ferrovija, Santa Venera

Map: <https://goo.gl/maps/bspHHkT5xkz>

**Title:** Reverse proxies & Inconsistency (from ZeroNights 2018)

Modern websites are growing more complex with different reverse proxies
and load balancers covering them. They are used for various purposes:
request routing, caching, putting additional headers, restricting
access. In other words, reverse proxies must both parse incoming
requests and modify them in a particular way. However, path parsing may
turn out to be quite a challenge due to mismatches in the parsing of
different web servers. Moreover, request converting may imply a wide
range of different consequences from a information security point of
view. I have analyzed different reverse proxies with different
configurations, the ways they parse requests, apply rules, and perform
caching. In this talk, I will both speak about general processes and the
intricacies of proxy operation and demonstrate the examples of bypassing
restrictions, expanding access to a web application, and new attacks
through the web cache deception and cache poisoning.

**Speaker:** Aleksei *"GreenDog"* Tiurin (Senior Security Researcher at
Acunetix)

[Back to Top](#Upcoming_Events "wikilink")

# Past Meetings and Events

## Listing of Past Meetings and Events

[2018](#2018 "wikilink") | [2017](#2017 "wikilink") |
[2016](#2016 "wikilink")\]

-----

## 2018

### OWASP Malta Chapter Meeting, August, 2018

**When:**

  - Date: Wednesday 1st August 2018
  - Time: From 18:00

**Where:**

Malta Information Technology Agency

MITA Data Centre, Triq Il - Ferrovija, Santa Venera

Map: <https://goo.gl/maps/bspHHkT5xkz>

**Title:** Blockchain Security

Overview of all the areas around blockchain security, including
supporting infrastructure, smart contract security, etc.

**Speaker:** Rodrigo Marcos

[Back to Top](#Upcoming_Events "wikilink")

### OWASP Malta Chapter Meeting, June, 2018

**When:**

  - Date: Thursday 21st June 2018
  - Time: 18:30

**Where:**

MCAST IICT - MCAST Main Campus,

Triq Kordin, Paola PLA 9032

Map: <https://goo.gl/maps/W6gUjDb19xo>

**Title:** IT SECURITY: A SLIDE FROM THE BOTTOM TO THE TOP

Technological advances shape the way we work and live now and for years
to come. Breakthroughs are the order of the day and web applications are
created practically on the fly. Combine that with mass distribution and
all of a sudden security, best-practice frameworks and even regulations
get relegated to the catching-up zone. In this talk Mark Fenech will
adopt Information Security principles for the development of web
applications, so that management, developers and business stakeholders
alike will have a framework within which they can ruminate for more
secure web applications.

**Speaker:** Mark Fenech

With over 20 years of experience in the IT and Financial Services
industry, Mark Fenech heads the IT Audit Team within a local bank.
Ranging from technical, less technical and outright non-technical
domains, Mark’s skills extend across multiple disciplines required
within IT Auditing, IT Risk Management, Cybersecurity and other various
IT Management Processes. Mark is a Certified Information Systems Auditor
(CISA, ISACA), Certified in Risk and Information System Controls (CRISC,
ISACA), holds certifications in Cybersecurity (CSX, ISACA) and in the
Governance and Management Framework for Enterprise IT (COBIT, ISACA), is
a Member of the Business Continuity Institute (MBCI), holds a Teacher’s
Warrant from the Council for the Teaching Profession, and is also a
Competent Communicator (CC, Toastmasters International). In addition,
Mark holds a BSc in Mathematics and Computer Science from the University
of Malta, and an MBA from the Maastricht School of Management. He is
also a seasoned Public Speaker and speaks frequently on a variety of
topics for educational purposes and for raising awareness within
different entities.

[Back to Top](#Listing_of_Past_Meetings_and_Events "wikilink")

### OWASP Malta Chapter Meeting, April, 2018

**When:**

  - Date: Thursday 19th April 2018
  - Time: 18:30

**Where:**

MCAST IICT - MCAST Main Campus,

Triq Kordin, Paola PLA 9032

Map: <https://goo.gl/maps/W6gUjDb19xo>

**Title:** Porting a Proof of Concept C code into universal python
exploit (OpenSSH).

**Summary:**

OpenSSH lets you grant SFTP access to users without allowing full
command execution using “ForceCommand internal-sftp”. However, if you
misconfigure the server and don’t use ChrootDirectory, the user will be
able to access all parts of the filesystem that he has access to –
including procfs. On modern Linux kernels (\>=2.6.39, I think),
/proc/self/maps reveals the memory layout and /proc/self/mem lets you
write to arbitrary memory positions.

This talk will provide an overview of the exploitation process for the
OpenSSH vulnerability and the challenges and techniques used to create
an universal exploit for 32 and 64 bit architectures.

**Speaker:** Adam Simuntis and Mindaugas Slusnys

[Back to Top](#Listing_of_Past_Meetings_and_Events "wikilink")

### OWASP Malta Chapter Meeting, October, 2018

**When:**

  - Date: Friday 19th October 2018
  - Time: From 18:00

**Where:**

Malta Information Technology Agency

MITA Data Centre, Triq Il - Ferrovija, Santa Venera

Map: <https://goo.gl/maps/bspHHkT5xkz>

**Talk 1: Manning Infosec Strategy**

There are three main factors that influence how information security is
dealt with these days - (1) the presumed risk if we don’t do it (or do
it badly), (2) the pace at which technologies and business styles change
and (3) the lack of a structure behind any infosec activities.

It’s clear to me that these are just some of the challenges infosec
teams must deal with nowadays. This talk will open the floor to a
discussion of blockers, challenges and drivers discussing the evolution
of the roles associated with infosec and later merging best practice
recommendations with an infosec strategy to dealing with risks. Finally,
once a strategy is adopted, the presentation will present some ideas on
how to gauge progress– such that efforts to improve are both meaningful
and measurable.

**Speaker:** Donald Tabone

Donald currently manages the Infosec team @ LeoVegas. He teaches the
subject at a Masters level with Middlesex University and has worked for
many years in the fields of Information Security, IT Auditing and Risk
Management. With a career spanning more than 20 years working across
Europe and the US, he is a long-standing Gold member of ISACA and also
has the honour of working as a Technical Forensic Court Expert for the
Courts of Malta.

**Talk 2: MDR vs SIEM**

SIEM's are awesome tools and have gained huge traction in past years.
While they've without a doubt changed the landscape of cyber security,
they leave quite a few holes which most info-sec pro's are unaware of.
Jean-Michel will be explaining how both existing and prospective users
of SIEM tools can avoid these caveat's and make the most of their
technology reach.

**Speaker**: Jean-Michel Azzopardi

Jean-Michel is the Ceo of Kralanx Cyber Security.  He has experience
under IBM as an SAP consultant and has sold cyber security software to
Apple, Huawei and countless government organizations around the world. 

[Back to Top](#Upcoming_Events "wikilink")

-----

## 2016

### OWASP Malta Chapter Meeting, December, 2016

**When:** 9th December @ 18:30 - 20:30

**Where:** Middlesex University, Triq Alamein, Pembroke, Malta

**Title:** Introduction to OWASP Malta | | Memorable Hacks in the Gaming
industry

> As one of the key market verticals in Malta is iGaming, we will open
> the OWASP chapter covering a number of ingenius hacks see through
> history. Rodrigo will cover a number of interesting scenarios of hacks
> applied to the gaming sector.

**Speaker:** Rodrigo Marcos

[Back to Top](#Listing_of_Past_Meetings_and_Events "wikilink")

# Chapter Leadership

## Our Chapter Leadership

| scope="col" style="width: 20%; font: bold;" | *' Chapter Leadership Board Member Role*'                                                                                          | scope="col"    | Responsibilities | scope="col" | Person(s) |
| ------------------------------------------- | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | -------------- | ---------------- | ----------- | --------- |
| Chapter Leader                              | The central point of contact for the Chapter and responsible to the OWASP Board. Serves as Chapter Leader and Chapter board chair. | Rodrigo Marcos |                  |             |           |
| Talk / Speaker Coordination                 | Serves as the primary point of contact for speakers who want to participate in the chapter.                                        | Rodrigo Marcos |                  |             |           |

# Sponsorship Opportunities

## Sponsorship Opportunities with our Chapter

The Malta OWASP Chapter can offer your company several sponsorship
opportunities. If you are interested in taking advantage of any of these
opportunities, please contact Rodrigo Marocs, the Malta OWASP Chapter
Leader.

__NOTOC__ <headertabs></headertabs>

[Category:OWASP Chapter](Category:OWASP_Chapter "wikilink")
[Category:Europe](Category:Europe "wikilink")