# Next Meeting

##### **13th November 2018**

### OWASP Manchester CTF 2018

Manchester OWASP will be running it’s first annual CTF on November 13th
in partnership with Manchester Grey Hats who will be running the
challenges.

The CTF will be hosted by the Manchester Technology Centre on Oxford
Road and is aimed at people working in the tech industry who have an
interest in security. The CTF itself will be a jeopardy style challenge
aimed at a range of technical capabilities, with some low or non tech
challenges.

So, if you're a developer, software tester, system architect, infosec
professional, or just have an interest in security sign up. We'll be
running teams of 4, so you can either enter a full team or we can help
you put one together on the day\!

Manchester Grey Hats will be running a series of short workshops on the
same topics as the CTF on October 24th, so keep an eye on their [Meetup
page](https://www.meetup.com/Manchester-Grey-Hats/events/255241900/)\!

Thanks to our community sponsors; Manchester Grey Hats, North West
Testers Gathering, Manchester Girl Geeks, Techs and the City, Tech
Leaders of the North West and PowerShell Manchester.

Check and reserve your place on **[OWASP Manchester CTF 2018 Meetup
event](https://www.meetup.com/OWASP-Manchester/events/255192665/)**.

# Code of conduct

OWASP Manchester meetings and events are an inclusive environment where
all people should feel safe and respected. We welcome diversity in age,
race, ethnicity, national origin, range of abilities, sexual
orientation, gender identity, financial means, education, and political
perspective.

OWASP Manchester will not tolerate any form of violence, harassment,
hate speech or trolling either off or online, or any overly drunken,
intimidating or heckling behaviour.

Please respect the presenters, don’t talk amongst yourselves during
their presentations and ensure your mobile phones are muted or switched
off.

We want you to have fun, in a safe and respectful environment.

If you have any issues or concerns relating to the code of conduct
please contact one or the Chapter Leads either in person, though the
Meetup page or via email.

Chapter Leads:

  - Ben Fountain
  - Daniel Pollard
  - Joe Carter
  - Nikola Milosevic
  - Sharka Pekarova
  - Saskia Coplans
  - Wes Parsons

(email addresses are on the OWASP website
[1](https://www.owasp.org/index.php/Manchester)).

As this is a private event we withhold the right to remove and
ultimately ban anyone who violates this code of conduct and will report
any incidents to the appropriate authorities if necessary.

**Polite note to Vendors/Recruiters/Internal Recruiters/Business
Development people**

Vendors and Recruiters are welcome at OWASP Manchester, however we ask
that you remember this is a user group, not a networking event, and
tapping people up for jobs or business unprompted is not encouraged.

# Past Events

**2018 Dates**

[4th September](4th_September "wikilink")

[17th July](17th_July "wikilink")

[3rd May](3rd_May "wikilink")

**2017 Dates**

[24th April](2017_04_26_Manchester "wikilink")

**2016 Dates**

[30th November](2016_11_30_Manchester "wikilink")

[16th June](2016_06_16_Manchester "wikilink")

[17th March](2016_03_17_Manchester "wikilink")

**2015 Dates**

[12th November](2015_11_17_Manchester "wikilink")

[17th June](2015_06_17_Manchester "wikilink")

[17th February](2015_02_17_Manchester "wikilink")

**2014 Dates**

[8th September](2014_09_08_Manchester "wikilink")

[13th May](2014_05_13_Manchester "wikilink")

[27th February](2014_02_27_Manchester "wikilink")

**2013 Dates**

[30th April](2013_04_30_Manchester "wikilink")

**2012 Dates**

[11th September](2012_09_11_Manchester "wikilink")

[30th May](2012_05_30_Manchester "wikilink")

[1st February](2012_02_01_Manchester "wikilink")

**2011 Dates**

[16th November](2011_11_16_Manchester "wikilink")

[24th August](2011_08_24_Manchester "wikilink") As part of the Leeds
Chapter

[22nd June](https://www.owasp.org/index.php/Leeds_UK) As part of the
Leeds Chapter

**2010 Dates**

[8th December](8th_December_Leeds "wikilink") As part of the Leeds
Chapter

# Chapter Leaders

The chapter leaders are:

  - Ben Fountain
  - [Nikola Milosevic](User:Nikola_Milosevic "wikilink")
  - [Daniel Pollard](User:Daniel_Pollard "wikilink")

Chapter Board Members are:

  - Joe Carter
  - [Sharka Pekarova](Sharka_Pekarova "wikilink")
  - [Saskia Coplans](mailto:saskia@digitalinerruption.com)
  - [Wes Parsons](mailto:parsonswesley@gmail.com)

# Sponsorship

We are looking for organizations to sponsor the Manchester chapter.

You can sponsor the chapter for one year at the following levels:

  - £1000 Silver
  - £2000 Gold
  - £3000 Platinum

You can also sponsor a meeting by hosting the event or donating £200.

If you are interested in sponsoring the chapter then please get in touch
with one of the chapter leaders.

# Local Organizations

Other related organizations in the Manchester area:

  - [BCS Manchester](http://manchester.bcs.org/)
  - [GeekUp](http://geekup.org/)
  - [MadLab](http://madlab.org.uk/)
  - [Manchester Free Software](http://libreplanet.org/wiki/Manchester)
  - [Manchester Linux Users Group](http://www.manlug.org/)
  - [Northern UK Security
    Group](https://northernuksecuritygroup.wordpress.com/)
  - [North West Tester
    Gathering](http://www.meetup.com/North-West-Tester-Gathering)
  - [Security BSides Manchester](http://www.bsidesmcr.org.uk/)

Please get in touch with one of the chapter leaders to get your
organization listed here.

And feel free to use the [Manchester mailing
list](https://lists.owasp.org/mailman/listinfo/owasp-Manchester) to
publicise related events.

__NOTOC__ <headertabs></headertabs>

## Chapter Sponsors

Thank you to our Silver Chapter sponsor:
![AutoTrader.jpg](AutoTrader.jpg "AutoTrader.jpg")

[Category:OWASP Chapter](Category:OWASP_Chapter "wikilink")
[Category:United Kingdom](Category:United_Kingdom "wikilink")