![Mano_Paul.jpg](Mano_Paul.jpg "Mano_Paul.jpg") <b>Shark Researcher
turned Security Guru\!</b>
<b>Manoranjan (Mano) Paul</b> (CSSLP, CISSP, AMBCI, MCSD, MCAD, CompTIA
Network+, ECSA) is the Founder and CEO at [SecuRisk
Solutions](http://www.securisksolutions.com) and [Express
Certifications](http://www.expresscertifications.com). Based out of
Austin, Texas in the USA, SecuRisk Solutions specializes in three areas
of information security solutions - Product Development, Consulting and
Awareness, Training & Education while Express Certifications focuses on
professional certifications like the CISSP, SSCP, CSSLP and the BCI
certificate.

Before SecuRisk Solutions and Express Certifications, Mano played
several roles from software developer, quality assurance tester,
logistics manager, technical architect, IT strategist and Security
Engineer/Program Manager/Strategist at Dell Inc. His information
security experience includes designing and developing software security
programs from Compliance-to-Coding, application security risk
management, security strategy & management, and conducting security
awareness training and education.

Mano started his career as a shark researcher in the Bimini Biological
Field Station, Bahamas. His educational pursuit took him to the
University of Oklahoma where he received his Business Administration
degree in Management Information Systems (MIS) with various accolades
and the coveted 4.0 GPA. He actively participates in OWASP as a speaker,
trainer and in OWASP leadership events. He is also the appointed
Software Assurance Advisor for (ISC)<sup>2</sup>, representing and
advising the organization on software assurance strategy, training,
education and certification. He is an appointed faculty member and
industry representative of the Capitol of Texas Information System
Security Association (ISSA) chapter.

Mano has been featured in various domestic and international security
conferences and is an invited speaker and panelist, delivering talks and
keynotes in conferences such as the OWASP, CSI, Burton Group Catalyst,
TRISC and SC World Congress conferences. He is the author of the
Official (ISC)<sup>2</sup> Guide to the Certified Secure Software
Lifecycle Professional (CSSLP<sup>CM</sup>), contributing author for the
Information Security Management Handbook, writes periodically for the
Certification Magazine and has contributed to several security topics
for the Microsoft Solutions Developer Network (MSDN).

Mano is married to whom he calls the “most wonderful and sacrificial
person in this world” - Sangeetha Johnson and their greatest fulfillment
comes from spending time with the son – Reuben A Paul (RAP).