# Committee Updates

## **Conferences**

### [Budget](https://spreadsheets.google.com/a/owasp.org/ccc?key=0AsFE6Oyqbn2cdG5OZG1wb04zWXNsV1llOEhyUjA5WFE&hl=en)

Technology budget $91.20 available (domains purchased), all others
unchanged

### Accomplishments

  - OCMS Launched
  - 2012 Call for Global AppSecs launche

### Priorities

  - Global Sponsorships
  - OWASP Track

### Items for Approval

  - **OWASP/First Relationship**

[Partnership
agreement](https://lists.owasp.org/pipermail/owasp-board/attachments/20110217/86057c8d/attachment-0001.pdf)
between OWASP and FIRST. Already has the concurrence of the GCC

  - *' Conference Profit Sharing Model*'

GCC approval on Jan 11th 2011 meeting [Meeting
Minutes](https://docs.google.com/a/owasp.org/document/d/1eVX6lDyAtsUBrDKp6C7pcPTk8ObCv-QgnFAGq_zj510/edit?hl=en)

Local host chapters will share in OWASP event profits under the
following schedule. In the case of multiple host chapters, the host
chapters will be responsible for determining the division before the
event.

  - Global AppSec Conference - 25% of event profits with a $5,000 USD
    cap ($10,000 for multi-chapter events)
  - Regional/Theme Events - 30% of event profits with a $4,000 USD cap
  - Local Events - 50% of profits with a $3000 USD cap

[Additional
Details](https://lists.owasp.org/pipermail/owasp-board/2011-February/004353.html)

  - **GCC Representative Funding**

The board had asked the GCC to discuss the funding mechanism for GCC
representation at events (GCC budget or against individual conferences).
This was discussed and voted upon at the Feb GCC meeting and the
committee decided that it would be best to manage these funds out of a
GCC travel budget for supporting events. The GCC felt that, as at the
end of the day it's all the foundation's money, the benefits of rolling
this travel under the conference budget (therefore showing more
"expenses" to their budget, allegedly encouraging them to earn more
money to break "even") did not outweigh the "perceived" costs of
offering conferences direct on-site support and then "charging" them for
it. As the travel costs are likely to have a small impact on a Global
AppSec Budget (approx $2000/trip) it's not likely going to impact the
bottom line of the conference and would not likely be the sole
motivating factor for planners to get additional sponsorship income. The
potential soft costs to the ability of the GCC to conduct it's oversight
role may be significantly impacted by making the planners pay a "tax"
that is wholly internal to the organizations accounting and has no real
allocation. Additionally, in the cases where a conference planner said
"thanks but no thanks" to a GCC rep at their conference, the larger
goals of better contract management, event feedback and assessments
would not be achieved.

*In short, the GCC recommends to the board that this funding stream be
placed under the GCC budget as originally requested in the amount of
$10,000.*

### Other Items

**GCC Representative Roles and Responsibilities at Events**

The GCC will now send a representative to all Global AppSec Events and
to other regional events as budget allows. This member of the GCC will
be identified early and assigned to liaise with the conference planners
and provide a single point of contact for interfacing with the
committee. They will also work with Dave to go through "training" for
signature authority on contracts less than or equal to $15,000 USD in
the scope of the assigned conference. While on-site the GCC
representative will provide logistical, contracting and other on-site
support as well as report back to the committee in the following areas
(from the GCC 2011 Comprehensive plan):

GCC member shall:

  - interface with the local planning committee at least 1 month before
    trip (attend planning call)
  - Interact with planners/attendees while at conference
  - Interact with Sponsors
  - Sign conference contracts under $15,000 (once approved)
  - At the next GCC meeting the traveling member will be expected to
  - Provide an post trip report covering
      - Assessment of facility
      - Event Marketing Strategy
      - Examination of Event Budget
      - Estimation of Speaker Quality
      - Sponsor engagement/cost-effectiveness & feedback
      - Any notable comments from planners/attendees
      - Any unique outstanding elements
      - Any issues

## Projects

GPC Updates:

  - **Projects Committee 2011 Budget Proposal**

The projects committee has drafted a [detailed
budget](https://docs.google.com/a/owasp.org/document/d/11HjbUeJxyRbQ4Jg6Wg7LceMZox0wz3Fz-LUwjfam5eg/edit?hl=en)
proposal to support four (4) GPC initiatives. For each initiative, the
budget outlines projected estimates based on market research and
describes *exactly* **how** and **when** the funds would be utilized.
The budget also provides a detailed (12 pages long\!), well thought out
plan with *concrete goals* and *tangible deliverables* in order to
evaluate initiative success. The four initiatives include: Project
Hosting, GPC Working Sessions, Project Support, and Project Incentives.

The Global Projects Committee 2011 Budget Proposal can be found
[here](https://docs.google.com/a/owasp.org/document/d/11HjbUeJxyRbQ4Jg6Wg7LceMZox0wz3Fz-LUwjfam5eg/edit?hl=en).

  - The GPC has welcomed three (3) new members (Chris Schmidt, Justin
    Searle, and Larry Casey) and is looking forward to welcoming Keith
    Turpin upon completion of his application (Keith has already
    participated in GPC Meetings).
  - [Project Hosting
    RFP](https://docs.google.com/document/d/10qW-Jh7IFoTsp9eh-t_aHiderkCDLFk0KCx2TNOuxoI/edit?hl=en)
    in final review
  - Fleshing out the proposed [OWASP Project
    Lifecycle](https://docs.google.com/a/owasp.org/leaf?id=0B2vv_7Gz8Z7TOWYyN2VjNjgtMWU1My00YjkxLTk0ZGYtNmUyMTNmMDg4YzI0&sort=name&layout=list&num=50)
      - Recent addition of "OWASP Enterprise"
      - Hinges on Project Hosting to manage lifecycle and Project
        Incentives to drive adoption by leaders
  - [Current Project Status Overview](March_7,_2011/Paulo "wikilink")

## Membership

• We have two new members (Helen Gao, Ofer Maor) and both have a focus
on expanding international participation. To increase international
participation we are looking to possibly decrease the Individual
Membership fees as well as explore different benefits that will make
Membership more palatable / interesting to non-American and non-Western
European individuals.

• In addition to increasing International Membership we are also looking
to increase the number of Organizational Supporters from non-vendor
companies. This is in-line with the Industry Committee’s reinvigorated
focus on Industry participants.

• We are exploring the possibility of making an @owasp.org email address
a membership benefit. In addition to being a benefit, this will also
help to streamline communication to OWASP Members for “official”
business such as voting.

• Next meeting is next Tuesday and that is when we will follow up on
TODOs from the 2011 Summit.

## Industry

Discussion Points

  - Conference reach out via organizers and local chapters

`         -Dublin`
`         -Brazil`
`         -US `
`         -China`

  - Contact list for Industry by vertical
  - Budget proposal:
    <https://spreadsheets.google.com/ccc?key=0ApZ9zE0hx0LNdEpRbVhBUEljMGpLNnVJa0FHeWZwMkE&hl=en&authkey=CPjLgdwN#gid=0>
  - Corporate member structure
  - Corp Survey regarding OWASP projects and effectiveness
  - Metrics report by Vertical
  - Industry alignment by vertical

## Connections

I'm sorry I could not make this call. The connections committee is still
at 2 members - and we are adding 2 soon.

We are:

1\) Updating the OWASP blog

2\) Running the OWASP twitter account

3\) Handling any press inquiries and forwarding those to the right
people and maintaining
<http://www.owasp.org/index.php/OWASP_Connections_Committee> and
<http://www.owasp.org/index.php/Press>

4\) Running the podcast series (next show up this week)

We do not hold committee meetings. We hold "working sessions" on an
constant but unscheduled basis.

## Education

Education Committee will be meeting in March.

## Chapters

# Other Foundation Business

  - '''Remove the "board member representative" requirement for the
    Global Committees. '''

This idea was intiated as a mechanism to provide the committeess with a
"line" to the board. It has evolved, however, into a percieved "veto"
option for the board. Instead, I recommend we implement a "requirement"
for the Global Committee chair to present their committee progress to
the Board during the meetings. This moves the requirement of
participation from the Board and provides the Committee an opportunity
to present items that require vote. Board members should be allowed to
participate as a committee member, but should not be considered a
committee chair or looked to as a committee member who has privelages
above other committee members.

  - **Approve $5K in funding for the Global Membership, Global
    Conferences, and Global Chapter Committees for operational support**

These three committees have initiatives for 2011 as defined during the
summit. These initiatives will require many "tasks" that are time
consuming and will require uninterrupted hours to complete. I would like
the committee chair to "approve" the selection. These contracted staff
will be supervised by me, the Operations Director. Tasks managed and
outcomes tracked as directed by the committee chairs.

[Job
Description](http://www.owasp.org/images/6/6b/Operational_Support_for_OWASP_Global_Committee.pdf)

  - **Status of Tesauro Consulting Inititive**

Is the OWASP Board going to continue working on the Core Values, Core
Purpose, and so on, or is this going to be assigned to the Global
Committee Chairs to finish?

  - **Status of New OWASP Hosting on Rackspace cloud.**

Rackspace has agreed in principal to host OWASP for free on their cloud
infrastructure. I have a meeting this week (March 10th) with the CTO &
CISO to nail down the particulars and get an agreement in place.