## Dial In Info

### Notice of Recording

  - Notice to all attendees - board meetings are recorded and publicly
    available as of March, 2013
  - Joining the call acknowledges your awareness of recording and
    consent to be recorded and public dissemination of the recording.
  - [Recording of 13 January 2016 OWASP Board
    Meeting](https://www.dropbox.com/s/9v88xcox5rb6pkc/2016-01-13%2016.09%20OWASP%20Board%20Meeting.wmv?dl=0)
  - [Recording of 17 February 2016 OWASP Board
    Meeting](https://www.dropbox.com/s/rksh4zr5sf6z2un/2016-02-17%2015.02%20OWASP%20Board%20Meeting.wmv?dl=0)
  - [Recording of 16 March 2016 OWASP Board
    Meeting](https://www.dropbox.com/s/ciqisz1cobvxfwk/2016-03-16%2016.02%20OWASP%20Board%20Meeting.wmv?dl=0)

### Time

  - March 16, 2016, 16:00-17:30 PST -
    <http://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/meetingdetails.html>?

[TimeZone
Converter](http://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/meetingdetails.html?year=2016&month=03&day=16&hour=23&min=0&sec=0&p1=224&p2=24&p3=263&p4=78&p5=37&p6=102&p7=152)

### Location

**Teleconference Information:**

<https://www3.gotomeeting.com/join/861328838>

[International Toll Free Calling
Information](International_Toll_Free_Calling_Information "wikilink")

### Attendance Tracker

**[Board Meeting Attendance
Tracker](https://docs.google.com/a/owasp.org/spreadsheet/ccc?key=0ApZ9zE0hx0LNdG5uRzNYZE8ycDFabnBWNkU4SFpwREE)**

### Meeting Minutes

  - [16 March 2016 Board Meeting
    Minutes](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1xGrNduAoAf2cZ9Xgup431SbZw-qjL5JZqukHIfWTyBI/edit#)
  - [17 February 2016 Board Meeting Minutes for
    Approval](https://docs.google.com/a/owasp.org/document/d/1J9BZ2DIgItMpajbAaPGzA1HcbkVQ5SKzfLUFDa06H4s/edit?usp=sharing)

# Reading Material

***It is a requirement as a board member to fully read all material
prior to the start of the meeting***

1\. NEW -

2\. NEW -

3\. [Jan 2016 Financial Detail P\&L in Excel
format](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1Mh6DSX7M9psqsyNFfyvNxQAf7w3c83DOKyyol7G8GN4/edit?usp=sharing)

  - Note Cash Balance for Foundation is ‘trending’ lower, although this
    will reverse now that AppSec Rome Registration is Open. Also, A/R is
    sitting at $199,623 pending collections with virtually no bad debt.
    AP is small at $17,000. Also see sheet called 'Board Summary' for
    best snapshot of P\&L.

4\. \>\> READ Staff Status reports below.

  - How To Host a Conference Policy Statements - Updated March 11.
  - OWASP Branding Guidelines - Updated and clarified, as of March 11
  - [Laura Grau - Conference Manager Report -
    March 2016](https://www.owasp.org/images/d/d4/Laura_GrauMarch2016ConferenceManagerReport.pdf)

# Meeting Agenda

## Call to Order /OWASP Mission

Open Meeting - Start Recording, List attendees and Agenda update (only
if last-minute changes are needed) (5 min)

  - Approve minutes from February 17, 2016.

## Actionable Agenda Topics

  -
## Discussion Topics

  - April 20 and May 18 Board meeting schedule (Josh)

## Misc. Topics (10-15 Minutes)

  - Membership - why do many chapters have a -ve balance (ajv)
  - Membership - why do many chapters have a $0 balance for memberships
    when they have members (ajv)
  - Membership - what can we do to encourage OWASP membership? Business
    cards with a QR code? Membership drive? Announcements for chapter
    leaders to read out at the start of every meeting? What works? (ajv)
    Pro-active distribution of new materials and summary digest in a
    "push out" model? Similar to community update and news flashes ...
    maybe with slightly different models for content for developers?(mk)

## Old Business

All active board proposals are listed
[here](https://drive.google.com/folderview?id=0BxSfMVkfLvslVXdvUFV3NkxucWc&usp=sharing)

  - We did not have an e-mail discussion of the clarification of "Active
    leaders" during the last month, so no e-vote.

## New Business

  - Needs assessment update (Kate)

## Action Item Follow-Up

  - [2016 Action Item Status from Past BoD
    Meetings](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1LtYN2QSCUBSM53_M0HGAISqiGiXbxO9k8LXv2ZoIVgQ/edit?usp=sharing)

## Reports

### Chairmain's Report - Matt Konda

Detail here: <https://trello.com/b/YWY4pf8I/global-board>

  - Working with Kelly, Kate on sponsor package for software companies.
    (In progress)
  - Working with Kelly, Kate, Claudia on developer outreach. (In
    progress)
      - Talking with O'Reilly conferences.
  - Trying to help with projects. Talked with Simon, Dinis, John Melton.
    Reached out to Apache Software Foundation for ideas. (In progress)
  - ED Review (Under review)
  - Ongoing commits to pipeline project (security checks tool)

### Vice Chairmain's Report - Josh Sokol

  - Update on efforts with bug bounty program

### Treasurer Report - Andrew van der Stock

  - This month was very quiet.
  - I've reviewed the January 2016 P\&L summary sheet. It does not
    contain a lot of (obvious? any?) detail for March 2016.

\- I would like a new P\&L summary every month. If this sheet is hard to
do, will talk to Paul and Laura about gaining access to the raw data.

  - There was one expense for $27k relating to a booking for AppSec USA
    (it's a surprise) that will be broken into three smaller payments,
    which means I don't have to approve it, but it's within the budget
    for AppSec USA.
  - I did not approve any expenses over $10k as none arose.
  - Expenses are generally raised and approved in a timely fashion.

### Secretary Report - Jim Manico

No secretary updates this month.

### Updates from Members at Large

  - Michael Coates (Chapters)
  - Tom Brennan (Projects)
  - Tobias Gondrom (Governance)

## Reports

  - [Executive Director Status Report for 16
    March 2016](https://docs.google.com/document/d/106bTJRgGyrNzAxB8PdIEtuOeJz6Axc2G1_3AoGz5CLk/edit?usp=sharing)
      - [2016 Strategic Goals, Progress
        YTD](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1oidczFWz3uBHsM11GRUhtJVyEBI3RbCLPqXKB-iJ6bk/edit?usp=sharing)
  - [Membership
    Report](https://www.owasp.org/index.php/February_2016_Membership_Report)
    - Kelly Santalucia
  - \[<https://docs.google.com/a/owasp.org/document/d/1-JPe4VItev8TJvI2oM9C7fi4dg7qy3n2dBYqfbfOzN8/edit?usp=sharing>|
    Event Manager Report\] - Laura Grau
  - [Operations
    Report](https://docs.google.com/a/owasp.org/document/d/1qIeyXy9Tq8AkMU0i2V-ZCR7SxpL55UlPEOqsBrK1Pps/edit?usp=sharing)
    - Kate Hartmann
  - [Project Coordinator
    Report](https://docs.google.com/a/owasp.org/presentation/d/1B1Lmu5bgnDl7P2ztlnWjDDOi0W1xX2l59_QKctiC0WU/edit?usp=sharing)-Claudia
    Casanovas
  - [Community Manager
    Report](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1-4fIJfiLa8l02Hf1XBMqRYEiY2z6g4qwln-_ZLQ6GIs/edit?usp=sharing)
    -Noreen Whysel
  - IT Update from Matt T.
      -
### Community Initiative Reports

  - TODO

## Announcements

  - TODO

## Adjournment

  - The Board will hold a confidential Board-only meeting following the
    close of the public meeting
  - Willing to shift to March 15?
  - Next meeting date/time: [March 16, 2016](March_16,_2016 "wikilink"),
    16:00-17:00 PST - [TimeZone
    Converter](http://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/meetingdetails.html?year=2016&month=03&day=16&hour=23&min=0&sec=0&p1=224&p2=24&p3=263&p4=78&p5=37&p6=102&p7=152)

## Motion to close meeting