**`March``   ``30th,``   ``2005`**

Atlanta OWASP March Meeting Presents Advanced Live Hacking:
Methodologies and Demonstrations of Web Application Hacks Wednesday
March 30th 7:00pm - 8:00pm Home Depot Store Support Center 2455 Paces
Ferry Road Atlanta GA

This meeting is open to public and admission/parking is free.

OWASP Atlanta - our mission as a local chapter of the Open Web
Application Security Project is to help promote awareness and
contributions to web application security.

Who Should Attend - anyone interested in Web Application Security
(managment, security architects, developers, etc)

You must RSVP to attend this event. Register to OWASP Atlanta mailing
list at: <http://lists.sourceforge.net/lists/listinfo/owasp-atlanta/>

Keynote Speaker Caleb Sima Co-founder, Chief Technology Officer,
Director of SPI Labs S.P.I. Dynamics Incorporated

Caleb Sima is the co-founder and chief technology officer of SPI
Dynamics, the expert in web application security assessment and testing.
Caleb is responsible for directing the lifecycle of the company’s web
application security solutions and is the director of SPI Labs, the
renowned application security research and development group within SPI
Dynamics. Here, he leads a team of accomplished security experts who
have received worldwide recognition for the identification of security
vulnerabilities and exploits.

Caleb has been engaged in the Internet security arena since 1996, a time
when the concept of Internet security was just emerging. Since then, he
has become widely recognized within the industry as an expert in
penetration (pen) testing (testing a company’s network security for
critical flaws), and for identifying emerging security threats. In early
2000 Caleb co-founded SPI Dynamics and helped define the direction the
industry has taken. Prior to co-founding SPI Dynamics, Caleb worked for
Internet Security Systems, Inc. (ISS), an industry pioneer and global
leader in Internet security. Caleb was a member of ISS’ elite X-Force
research and development team, led the creation of the first pen testing
team and drove enterprise security assessments for the company. Caleb
began his security career as a security engineer for S1 Corporation. In
this role, he was responsible for testing the security of software
products for the banking and finance industries. Additionally, he was in
charge of security for S1’s Datacenter, which managed the data transfer
and security of some of the world’s leading financial institutions.

Caleb’s engineering exploits have gained media attention in publications
such as the New York Times and the Washington Post. He has also
contributed to Baseline Magazine and was featured, along with the ISS
X-Force, in US News and World Report and Security World Magazine. A
frequent speaker at industry events and tradeshows, Caleb’s most recent
appearances include RSA 2004, the 2003 SouthEast CyberCrime Summit,
Comdex 2003, Information Systems Security Association (ISSA), and the
2002 Cyber Security in the Financial Services Sector Executive Summit.
Caleb is also a member of ISSA and is one of the founding visionaries of
the Application Vulnerability Description Language (AVDL) standard
within OASIS.

The SSC is located at: 2455 Paces Ferry Road Atlanta, GA 30339 Going
West on 285, Paces Ferry is about 2-4 miles west of 75