Meeting Location:

**VIRTUAL**

<https://www3.gotomeeting.com/join/861328838>

[International Toll Free Calling
Information](International_Toll_Free_Calling_Information "wikilink")

Face to face meeting held in EWART room at the Belfast Hilton

**[May 9, 2017
Minutes](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1Qa0o4R6DEz-WicQpcJlWnHuyVf3WRt5JwibalHTfzvc/edit?usp=sharing)
- Board Approved**

**[Meeting
Recording](https://drive.google.com/open?id=0B0yxedKRQADicjhRck0ydmRHTzg)**

**AGENDA** This is the VIRTUAL packet that is provided to everyone at
the same time to review, make comments and be prepared for the meeting.
There is no paper handout for the meeting.

`CALL TO ORDER`

`CHANGES TO THE AGENDA`

`APPROVAL OF MINUTES`

[March 22
minutes](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1gbjB5Lo-mYURbpnqHmVA6MvVfa1QrdZ6ygXZYVXCvy0/edit)

\- Approval of prior [prior meeting
mins](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1aPmftVZH3-G96J6-wrpynwwZhBHtREe5a7g8owVYUag)

`REPORTS`

[March 2017 Board Financial
Summary](https://drive.google.com/a/owasp.org/file/d/0BxI4iTO_QojvWFZTbFJ4SFEwX1hYUDNpSDYya3dZR2drOW9R/view?usp=sharing)

[March 2017 Summary Balance Sheet with
Ratios](https://drive.google.com/a/owasp.org/file/d/0BxI4iTO_Qojva19fV2tueUlrWTFoX2tDMVpFR0FWR2g2TDk0/view?usp=sharing)

OWASP Foundation is managed by the [Operations
Director](https://www.owasp.org/index.php/About_OWASP#Employees_and_Contractors)
who provides a monthly roll-up report in collaboration of all staff
members, contractors and efforts being managed by the [back office
team.](https://www.owasp.org/index.php/About_OWASP#Employees_and_Contractors)
A link to the monthly operational report can be found here:
[REPORT](https://owasp.blogspot.com/2017/05/owasp-operations-update-for-may-2017_5.html)

`OLD BUSINESS`

Affirmation of actions from last meeting [recorded material, votes and
actions](https://www.owasp.org/index.php/Board) \[Board\]

`NEW BUSINESS`

  - Community correspondence \[Tom Brennan\]
  - [Proposal to have Foundation run
    AppSecs](https://docs.google.com/document/d/15bk4Fh7sbDL_FXReS92aDz-xmmNnU3JYC35gO65J1nc/edit?usp=sharing).
    \[Matt Konda\]
  - Chapters guidance \[TJ\]
  - Executive Director Search \[Johanna Curiel\]
  - AppSec Global Events \[Tom Brennan\]

<!-- end list -->

  - OWASP Summit request for 85K USD to get extra people to the summit
    and have a professional operations team in place (see email
    8-May-2017). (Seba, Dinis, Francois)
  - Owasp learning gateway $100k full time staff. - Hire full time staff
    member to build out the learning gateway.
    [1](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1fGDmxz7cuEkr_xMt_kp6Nb0uacQhvJ_9ymjYR77yqkk/edit)
  - Owasp grant initiative $100k full time staff - Hire full time grant
    writer to work on grants for OWASP.
    [2](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1szWjXG_grUHZJryD_45XeC3DJF1qOifQjQRZxEJ5znY/edit)
  - OWASP BLT development and marketing $5k, (12 monthly prizes of $100,
    $1200 + development)
    [3](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1aNyq43_gHq8cKMDGtlqTC6H-pv71lH7mNsMgg1WPpy4/edit)
  - Owasp project kickstart. $10k - $100 to 100 projects to use
    Coderbounty on 2-5 of their Github tasks to get coding done.
    [4](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1ogGUjtHiSimzrnnXnEeCsAHn0qtAJ56S6cD7q_swlK4/edit)
  - Owasp innovation lab $250k
    [5](https://docs.google.com/document/d/17joGv0qNb0ieFXReUmAKxgf2oUyQDlo6b74RUD556tk/edit)
  - Grant engine / Spurri $50k - development
    [6](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1payALh8RjuKAXi30m56hUiXgTzgYhuXm8B3QVqo1whU/edit)
  - OWASP Hackathon sponsor $5k sponsor a hackathon with prizes and food
    for 2017 focused on OWASP
    [7](https://docs.google.com/document/d/13wCZgLugpjJS-5WcH3zn-n9ADZRke3GhNEP7EvjNi6Q/edit)
  - Fundraiser events / membership drive $300 per month $3,600 - Have a
    monthly membership drive / fundraiser, $300 for food and
    drinks.[8](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1uW0EqvWLdxho9p_X0ZDWI5h_i0rLWlRLmj7suThIigU/edit)
  - Volunteer portal project $50k - development of
    website.[9](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1DdGdDjXU7O_v4EgfJGwAOjoI9OL7Zmp3ecJC_iSjtyk/edit)
  - $30k for APAC tour $10k stipend for leaders Send 3 people with $10k
    stipend each.
    [10](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1FRRtVFxXi1X6G4iGvyqZ2tsYhTrcpxMX3n8Ii3DUQpg/edit)
  - OWASP Mentor Initiative with HQ NY $6,000
    [11](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1FS50Z9KUb-GKUG3GEMLfGT9SBxg6UfUuRiymO6ASqnQ/edit)
  - OWASP Organizational Development Initiative with HQ Brooklyn $50,000
    [12](https://docs.google.com/document/d/15kDHJRMkXIep27oB9YKLV7k51ErbafY5y8JKuc5g_f0/edit)

**<u>OWASP ByLaw Update Proposal \[JS\]</u>**

ByLaw amendment created by Josh Sokol, Bil Corry, and Jason Li. Update
[Section 3.03 of the OWASP
ByLaws](https://www.owasp.org/index.php/OWASP_Foundation_ByLaws) to
read:

... Attendance in person or virtually by board members is required at no
less than 75% of the total meetings each year and shall be highly
encouraged to meet in person at least once annually at a date to be
announced and agreed upon. **To be considered as "attended", the board
member must attend at least 90% of the meeting, starting at the
published scheduled time until the published end time or the meeting is
adjourned (whichever is earlier).** Attendance is tabulated by the
Executive Director or delegate within seven days after every scheduled
meeting for the purpose of determining if the 75% attendance requirement
has been met, and the tabulation is based upon the entire calendar year.
...

`COMMENTS, ANNOUNCEMENTS, AND OTHER BUSINESS`

`ADJOURNMENT`