[OWASP](https://www.owasp.org/) is a not-for-profit entity, that ensures
the project's long-term success. Similar to many open-source software
projects, we are volunteers from around the world, open to anyone
interested in learning more about software security. OWASP produces many
types of materials in a collaborative, open way (check some of them out
here: [OWASP Zed Attack Proxy Project
(ZAP)](OWASP_Zed_Attack_Proxy_Project "wikilink") and here: [OWASP Test
Project](OWASP_Test_Project "wikilink")).

Our talks can be on any aspect of application security, some of our past
talks have been:

  - Implementation of Security in the Software Development Lifecycle
  - Creating secure code requires more than just good intentions
  - Top Ten Web Defences
  - Introduction to Buffer Overflows.

To be a speaker at the next Melbourne Chapter event, simply message the
local chapter leader on
[Meetup.com](https://www.meetup.com/Application-Security-OWASP-Melbourne/)
with details of the talk. Also, don't forget to follow us on Twitter,
[@OWASPmelbourne](https://twitter.com/OWASPmelbourne) and join the
[OWASP Slack team](https://owasp.herokuapp.com/).

Last, but not least, we are all volunteers and typically pay for
everything ourselves. If you like what we do and would like to show your
support - please consider donating and becoming an OWASP member. 

# Meetup

We use
[Meetup.com](http://www.meetup.com/Application-Security-OWASP-Melbourne/)
exclusively to schedule and announce local events. Make sure to signup
to the Meetup group if you want to be notified of the latest events :)

<http://www.meetup.com/Application-Security-OWASP-Melbourne/>

# OWASP AppSec Day - Conference

[OWASP AppSec Day](https://appsecday.io/) is Australia’s only conference
dedicated entirely to product security. Aimed at providing a welcoming
environment for developers, testers, devops engineers and security
professionals alike. To improve their application security knowledge,
skills and to network with other like minded professionals. With a day
filled with talks, hands on workshops and panel sessions to learn all
things application security.

## Sponsorship And Membership

  - If you would like to become an OWASP member (40% of your membership
    goes to OWASP Melbourne) [click here to
    register](http://myowasp.force.com/memberappregion).
  - If you would prefer to support OWASP Melbourne more directly you can
    become a sponsor (90% of your sponsorship goes to OWASP Melbourne)
    [here](https://www.regonline.com/Register/Checkin.aspx?EventId=1044369).
  - To learn more about the different options and the benefits of each
    check out [this page](https://www.owasp.org/index.php/Membership) or
    contact us directly via the links below.

## Chapter leaders

  - [Pamela O'shea](Mailto:Pamela.oshea@owasp.org) |
    [@pamoshea](https://twitter.com/pamoshea)
  - [Daniel Ting](mailto:Daniel.ting@owasp.org) |
    [@hellodanielting](https://twitter.com/hellodanielting)
  - [Julian Berton](mailto:julian.berton@owasp.org) |
    [@JulianBerton](https://twitter.com/JulianBerton)

## Contact

  - **[OWASP Melbourne Meetup.com
    page](http://www.meetup.com/Application-Security-OWASP-Melbourne)**.
  - [Twitter, but of course\!](http://twitter.com/OWASPmelbourne)
  - [Slack, yes we have that too\!](http://owaspslack.com/)

## Legacy... Old meetings

For all meeting, please check our **[OWASP Melbourne Meetup.com
page](http://www.meetup.com/Application-Security-OWASP-Melbourne)**.


***Older***

  - ''' [Next meeting: 25
    Feb 2011 13:00](http://www.owasp.org/index.php/Melbourne/meetings/25feb2011)
    '''
  - ''' [Next meeting: 01
    July 2011 12:00](http://www.owasp.org/index.php/Melbourne/meetings/01jul2011)
    '''
  - *' [Next meeting: 25
    Aug 2011 12:00](http://www.owasp.org/index.php/Melbourne/meetings/25aug2011)*'
  - ''' [Next meeting: 09
    December 2011 14:00](http://www.owasp.org/index.php/Melbourne/meetings/09dec2011)
    '''
  - ''' [Next meeting: 16
    March 2012 12:30](http://www.owasp.org/index.php/Melbourne/meetings/16mar2012)
    '''
  - ''' [Next meeting: 25
    May 2012 13:00](http://www.owasp.org/index.php/Melbourne/meetings/25may2012)
    '''
  - ''' [Next meeting: 26
    July 2012 12:30](http://www.owasp.org/index.php/Melbourne/meetings/26jul2012)
    '''
  - ''' [Next meeting: 7
    March 2013 12:00](http://www.owasp.org/index.php/Melbourne/meetings/7March2013)
    '''
  - ''' [Next meeting: 3
    May 2013 12:00](http://www.owasp.org/index.php/Melbourne/meetings/3May2013)
    '''
  - ''' [Next meeting: 11
    October 2013 18:00](http://www.owasp.org/index.php/Melbourne/meetings/11Oct2013)
    '''
  - ''' [Next meeting: 08
    November 2013 18:00](http://www.owasp.org/index.php/Melbourne/meetings/8Nov2013)
    '''



[Category:OWASP_Chapter](Category:OWASP_Chapter "wikilink")
[Category:Australia](Category:Australia "wikilink")