![<File:MEMBERSHIP> BANNER.jpg](MEMBERSHIP_BANNER.jpg
"File:MEMBERSHIP BANNER.jpg")

## My organization is not in a position to contribute monetarily, but we would like to contribute technical services. Is there a way for us to be involved?

Technology Supporter designations are available for organizations who
make valuable in-kind donations of technology support services. Please
contact your local Chapter Leader if you would like to become a Chapter
Supporter in this manner or contact [Kelly
Santalucia](mailto:kelly.santalucia\(at\)owasp.org) if you would like to
become an Organizational Supporter.

## I’m an active (chapter leader, project leader, committee member). Does that mean I’m an OWASP Honorary Member and get to vote?

No. During the 2009 election, OWASP Honorary Memberships were granted to
all historical chapter leaders, project leaders and committee members,
but those honorary memberships have expired. We ask that you please
become an OWASP Individual Member [Join
Here](https://myowasp.force.com/joinapi__membershiplist?id=a5V0B0000008kL0UAI&order=1)
to support OWASP. Alternately, you may also request a new OWASP Honorary
Membership by submitting a description of your recent activities in
support of OWASP. [Honorary
Membership](https://www.owasp.org/index.php/2016_Honorary_Membership) is
now available year round. Honorary Membership does expire 1 year from
the date issued, and you do have to re-apply for it. We thank you for
your ongoing support of OWASP, and we require this for tracking purposes
for these requests from individuals around the world.

## My organization supports OWASP, but the annual cost to become a Corporate Supporter is too expensive. What options are available?

A great way to participate in OWASP is to support your local chapter.
Please look into becoming a [Chapter
Supporter](https://www.owasp.org/index.php/Local_Chapter_Supporter) at
the level where you feel comfortable. This will allow you to support
OWASP’s mission and help promote a vibrant application security
community in your area. Hopefully in the future you will be in a
position to become a Global [Corporate
Member](https://www.owasp.org/index.php/Corporate_Membership).

## Why Should I Become An OWASP Member or Corporate Member?

OWASP provides documentation, tools, methodologies, standards, articles,
and message forums (“OWASP Materials”) as a service to Internet users
worldwide to help users and developers understand more about application
security. OWASP makes these materials available to end users to help
them acquire, build, test, and operate secure software. In addition to
the benefits you receive as described above, your membership helps to
support the growth of OWASP and the development of new and improved
OWASP Materials. Because we are an open, non-commercial entity, we can
take on projects that commercial entities driven by profit motives could
not. Everyone benefits from these projects. Your support will help OWASP
continue to find and fight the causes of insecure software. Read why
some companies have chosen to join OWASP as a Corporate Member under our
[Testimonial](https://www.owasp.org/index.php/Membership#tab=Testimonials)
section.

## How Are Funds Used?

OWASP is a 501c3 not-for-profit foundation, and all funds go directly to
support OWASP projects, grants, chapters, and infrastructure. Our funds
come from conferences, memberships, advertising, and individual and
organization supporter contributions. For more information on how funds
are utilized [Click
Here](https://www.owasp.org/index.php/About_The_Open_Web_Application_Security_Project)

## Who Must Become an OWASP Member?

[Membership](https://www.owasp.org/index.php/Membership) is not required
to use OWASP materials under each project's open source license. Also,
anyone can participate in or contribute to an OWASP
[chapter](https://www.owasp.org/index.php/OWASP_Chapter) or
[project](https://www.owasp.org/index.php/Category:OWASP_Project)
without becoming a member. Your membership fees are what make the
various OWASP projects and chapters possible.

## How Can I Become An OWASP Member?

To become an OWASP Member, an individual or corporation must: Agree to
the terms and conditions of the OWASP Membership Agreement. Pay the
appropriate membership fee, depending on what type of OWASP Membership
is indicated. Keep OWASP updated with accurate contact and business
profile information. The term of the agreement is one year from the date
of execution. We appreciate your interest in becoming an OWASP Member.

**[Click here to become a
member.](https://myowasp.force.com/joinapi__membershiplist?id=a5V0B0000008kL0UAI&order=1)**

**[Click here to renew your
membership.](https://myowasp.force.com/CPBase__custom_login?site=a1e0B000007AckPQAS)**

Please contact [Kelly Santalucia](http://sl.owasp.org/contactus) for
information on wire transfer or other processing methods.



## What is OWASP’s licensing model?

  - **Open Source Licenses**: Each OWASP project is licensed under one
    of the [approved open source licenses](http://www.opensource.org/),
    such as the GPL, LGPL, GFDL, and BSD. Under these licenses, you may
    be required to contribute changes back to the open source community
    at large, according to the terms of the applicable open source
    license.

## How do I get my logo posted?

After becoming a OWASP Corporate Member or [Academic
Supporter](https://www.owasp.org/index.php/Academic_Supporter), email
your logo and url you would like it hyperlinked to to [Kelly
Santalucia](mailto:kelly.santalucia\(at\)owasp.org). Image size for
logos depends on the level of
[membership](https://www.owasp.org/index.php/Membership#tab=Corporate_Supporters)
you choose.

## For more information

For questions not answered please [Submit a
Inquiry](http://sl.owasp.org/contactus)

[return to membership](membership "wikilink")