## Welcome to **OWASP Memphis**


![Memphislogo-2019.png](Memphislogo-2019.png "Memphislogo-2019.png")

### Announcement

<div style="border-radius: 5px; border-style:solid; border-width:1px; border-color:#CCCCCC; background-color:#000000; padding:10px;">

<span style="color:#FFFFFF"> The **OWASP Memphis Chapter** will be
relaunching in 2019. Our Chapter Leaders will be announcing the *1st
Chapter Meeting* via social media and mailing list, the initial meeting
will be held specifically to debrief other chapter leaders, current
members, and discuss the future of the chapter moving forward.</span>

</div>

<div style="border-radius: 5px; border-style:solid; border-width:1px; border-color:#CCCCCC; background-color:#FFFFFF; padding:10px;">

<span style="color:#000000"> Accordingly, starting in 2019—**OWASP
Memphis** will be covering a wide range of application security topics;
and cater to beginners and advanced members alike. Our upcoming
presentations will be designed for people in the technology industry:
Developers, DevOps engineers, testers, security advisors, penetration
testers and application security enthusiasts. Our future events will be
aimed at providing relevant, practical and actionable knowledge, that
translates to stronger security and robust software.

> On behalf of the OWASP Memphis Chapter Leaders:

> \- [Tommy Xaypanya](User:Tommy_Xaypanya "wikilink") |
> [Email](Mailto:Tommy.Xaypanya@owasp.org)

> \- [Josh Summitt](User:Josh_Summitt "wikilink") |
> [Email](Mailto:Josh.Summitt@owasp.org)

> \- Gregory Nail | [Email](Mailto:Greg.Nail@owasp.org)

### About OWASP Memphis

<div style="border-radius: 5px; border-style:solid; border-width:1px; border-color:#CCCCCC; background-color:#000000; padding:10px;">

<span style="color:#FFFFFF"> The OWASP Foundation (www.owasp.org) is a
non-for-profit professional association of global members and is open to
anyone interested in learning more about software security.The OWASP
Memphis Chapter contributes to OWASP Foundation’s mission to make
application security visible, so that people and organizations can make
informed decisions about true application security risks. Everyone is
free to participate in OWASP and all of our materials are available
under a free and open software license.</span>

</div>

<div style="border-radius: 5px; border-style:solid; border-width:1px; border-color:#CCCCCC; background-color:#FFFFFF; padding:10px;">

<span style="color:#000000"> Globally, OWASP local chapters exist to
raise awareness of the OWASP mission, focusing on information sharing,
collaboration, participation and networking, while educating ourselves
in building a far more secure digital world.

***You can keep up with the events at OWASP Memphis Chapter by:***

  - Join our Meetups: <https://www.meetup.com/OWASP-Memphis-Chapter>
  - Join our LinkedIn Group: [OWASP Memphis
    LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/groups/3127943/)
  - Join our Github: [OWASPMemphis](http://github.com/OWASPMemphis)
  - "Like" and follow our OWASP Memphis Chapter page on
    [Facebook](http://facebook.com/OWASP-Memphis-115731311834721/)
  - Follow us @OWASPMemphis on
    [Twitter](https://twitter.com/owaspmemphis)
  - Follow us @OWASPMemphis on
    [Instagram](https://www.instagram.com/owasp_memphis/)
  - Sign Up for the [Chapter Mailing
    List](https://lists.owasp.org/mailman/listinfo/owasp-memphis/Memphis)
  - Our future events will be available on our [YouTube
    channel](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCSCAE3CKAaoCZChIj5_xLjA)
  - Slides presented at future events will be available for download at:
    [OWASP Memphis](https://www.owasp.org/index.php/Memphis)

</span>

</div>

### Sponsorship/Membership

<div style="border-radius: 5px; border-style:solid; border-width:1px; border-color:#CCCCCC; background-color:#000000; padding:10px;">

<span style="color:#FFFFFF"> ![Btn_donate_SM.gif](Btn_donate_SM.gif
"Btn_donate_SM.gif") to this chapter or become a local chapter
supporter.</span>

</div>

<div style="border-radius: 5px; border-style:solid; border-width:1px; border-color:#CCCCCC; background-color:#FFFFFF; padding:10px;">

<span style="color:#000000"> Or consider the value of [Individual,
Corporate, or Academic Supporter membership](Membership "wikilink").

Ready to become a member?
![Join_Now_BlueIcon.JPG](Join_Now_BlueIcon.JPG
"Join_Now_BlueIcon.JPG")

Special New/Renew Membership Promo for any previous OWASP Memphis member
or Memphis ISSA member looking to join.
Please email [Tommy Xaypanya](User:Tommy_Xaypanya "wikilink") for
details.

</span>

</div>

### About Our Meetings

<div style="border-radius: 5px; border-style:solid; border-width:1px; border-color:#CCCCCC; background-color:#000000; padding:10px;">

<span style="color:#FFFFFF"> We will be inviting various AppSec guest
speakers and industry relevant presenters at our monthly meetings and
plan on hosting an annual security training event that reaches out to
our entire region.</span>

</div>

<div style="border-radius: 5px; border-style:solid; border-width:1px; border-color:#CCCCCC; background-color:#FFFFFF; padding:10px;">

<span style="color:#000000"> In our future presentations and workshops,
we will include hands-on opportunities to learn key principles around
personal privacy and security for online applications through
penetration testing and treat analysis. We will explore known
vulnerabilities, hacks, and best practices to secure your online assets.
Learn how vulnerable you are, how easy it is for hackers to invade your
systems and how to use tools that can help you track, monitor and
protect. Learn about some great resources such as books, events, and
networks to connect with for taking an aggressive stance on improved web
security or personal privacy protections.</span>

</div>

<div style="border-radius: 5px; border-style:solid; border-width:1px; border-color:#CCCCCC; background-color:#FFFFFF; padding:10px;">

<span style="color:#000000"> Join in the follow-on roundtable
discussions and social interaction by attending an upcoming meeting.

*Who should attend:* Online business owners, developers, hackers,
webmasters, managers and security professionals.</span>

</div>

### Local Chapter News

<div style="border-radius: 5px; border-style:solid; border-width:1px; border-color:#CCCCCC; background-color:#000000; padding:10px;">

<span style="color:#FFFFFF"> The **OWASP Memphis Chapter** will be
relaunching in 2019. Our Chapter Leaders will be announcing the *1st
Chapter Meeting* via social media and mailing list, the initial meeting
will be held specifically to debrief other chapter leaders, current
members, and discuss the future of the chapter moving forward.</span>

</div>

<div style="border-radius: 5px; border-style:solid; border-width:1px; border-color:#CCCCCC; background-color:#FFFFFF; padding:10px;">

<span style="color:#000000"> Send Inquiries for 2019 Chapter Leadership
and Board Positions to: [Chapter Info](mailto:info@owaspmemphis.org) |
Send Inquiries for 2019 Sponsorships to:
[Sponsorship](mailto:sponsorships@owaspmemphis.org)</span>

</div>

[Category:OWASP Chapter](Category:OWASP_Chapter "wikilink")
[Category:OWASP Chapter](Category:OWASP_Chapter "wikilink")
[Category:United States](Category:United_States "wikilink")