2010 Global Summit - Need to verify budget for Summit before the format
is decided. Kate will follow up with Alison to see if $50K could be
allocated to the Summit for 2010. Dinis and Kate will communicate re:
Summit

Wiki Management template to Manage the RFC - Dinis/Paulo working on it.

Independent team will be formed to launch the Google Hacking Project
Inquiry.

Kate will prepare an RFP for Navitar and submit to them for comment.

Committee teams to be reignited at summit.