Present: Boare Members: Dave Wichers, Matt Tesauro, Tom Brennan, Eoin
Keary

Committee Chairs: Mark Bristow, Jason Li, Dan Cornell

Meeting Minutes from March approved.

Mark Bristow to provide information to Kate re: video processing from
the summit.

Officer Reports:

Meetings with Rackspace are ongoing. Relationship with Membership
committee established to facilitate the barter membership

Coordinate PR with Connections committee as overlay for OWASP Foundation

Industry committee hosting industry breakout sessions

Balance sheet AND P\&L need to be posted. Alison and Dave will work to
identify what needs to be posted.

Balance sheet information requested to post to minutes of this call.

Foundation Budget information will be reivewed and will finalize any
questions by April 15.

50% of the committee budgets approved. Remaining 50% to be approved or
reviewed within 15 days and receipt of additional informaiton.

Board Approval no longer required for new committee members.

Committee size will not be limited.

Vote for revised ByLaws will be via email on 4/15/2011

Educational Members should be eligible for a vote. Defer to Membership
Committee.

Election Announcement needs to be drafted for release to OWASP ALL by
April 15th

Committee Members/Chairs need to look to nominate other individuals for
the position.

Eoin raises the question regarding the driving of the
sponsorships/memberships for conferences...push inquiries across
committees.