Present: Jeff, Dinis, Matt, Dave, Tom, Seba, Eoin

Committee Updates:

Membership - Honorary membership spelled out. Model approved in theory.
Details and wording will be adjusted moving forward. Operational
procedures can be set up in the background.

Conferences

  - Representation at all of the conferences is encouraged. Duplication
    of efforts (board representation, GCC representation) roles need to
    be sorted out.

<!-- end list -->

  - Signatory delegation details need to be worked out. At this point,
    delgation of contracts less than $XYZ may be delegated. Dave Wichers
    requests contract key points to be gathered and posted.

<!-- end list -->

  - Concept of operating budget approved. Details of amounts to be
    determined at the summit or prior to based on financial 2011
    projections.

Additional process to set up sub roles for committee members suggested
(i.e. contracts, quality control, budgets, marketing, etc.)

Point system - will be sent out and reviewed by Friday for next
selection of funded attendees.

Recommendation to use owasp all and not "leaders list" to communicate
due to incomplete information.