Present: Tom Brennan, Eoin Keary, Dave Wichers, Dinis Cruz, Jeff
Williams

Dave Wichers proposed to allow Jim Manico to work as a "technical
project manager" for the ESAPI project. Dave will document job req and
present for vote at the next meeting. Dinis will push out to leaders
list for feedback.

**P\&L and Balance Sheet** will be reviewed by Board and questions
reviewed by the Board prior to the next meeting.

**Membership kits** will continue for now and topic will be referred to
the Membership Committee for consideration.

**Service Provider Registry** - Board willing to move forward with
project. Mike Boberski will be asked to document some additional rules
prior to implementation. Once these rules are adopted, then the board
will vote to implement. One requirement that will be avoided is to make
the registry open to both corporate members and non-members.

**OWASP Free Training** Training model needs to be driven by the local
chapter and funded by the local chapter. Different training models need
to be defined: local chapter driven, conference committee driven,
education committee driven, CBT. Creates a "culture" of local, chapter
events.

**Conference 2010 Attendance**

Tom to Mexico

Dinis to Brazil

Germany - Seba or Eoin

MN - Dave or Tom

**Committee Board Representation** Board Member will serve as liason
between the committee and the board. Goal is to assist the committee
remain self sufficient. Board member responsibility is also to connect
with the committee members to identify areas for improvement within the
committee structure. Goal will be to bring each committee to the minimum
of 7 members.

Board member representative will relay committee structure and
membership status at May Board meeting.