Richard Tesauro will coordinate with Kate to present information to
Board and facilitate action. [Tesauro
Page](http://www.owasp.org/index.php/Tesauro_Management_Counselors)

Code of Conduct - Matt Tesauro - Document to be posted as a wiki page
and forwarded this to the Global Committees for review, comment, and
approval.

OWASP Feedback form is agreed upon as a good "short term solution" for
incoming requests.

ASVS Leadership is being followed by GPC. They are reviewing 4 potential
leaders. Idea to encourage/push projects to have 2-3 co leaders is
promoted by GPC

A separate thread will be initiated to discuss a third party to
host/service the wiki and related services

Financially, conferences were profitable or break event except for
Brazil. P\&L posted to Agenda

Summit:

Sponsored Attendees need approval

Global Committee Members to attend needs to be addressed Potenitally
Sponsored Attendees

By the end of the week, every committee will identify non active members
to facilitate financial planning for summit.

Active members for last 6 months

Non-Active members for last 6 months to be removed from Committee

Board Member participation is critical to the success of the summit -
working sessions, attendees, etc.

Membership Committee - Tom will set up conference with JP Morgan
regarding membership purchases.

Projects Committee -

Education Committee - Seba will update activities

Conferences committee - Cassio's membership approved; EU conference
planning commmittee will be established and CFP and CFT and tracks will
be established.

Chapter's committee -