Board Members Present: Dave Wichers, Jeff Williams, Eoin Keary, Matt
Tesauro

Board Members Absent: Tom Brennan (joined at 1pm), Seba

Committee Chairs Present: Tin Zaw, Joe Bernik, Mark Bristow, Jason Li,
Martin Knobloch

Committee Chairs Absent: Dan Cornel, Jim Manico

Also Present: Kelly, Kate Hartmann, Paulo Coimbra

Conference Committee

Relationship with First approved

Mark will follow up with Conferences Committee to draft guidelines to be
used for future relationships. One key discussion is related to profit
and profit sharing models.

GCC Representative funding will remain under the GCC budget and will not
be charged to the conferences.

Conference Committee Proposed Profit sharing plan approved with the
understanding that the financial resources are still intended for
activity support. Chapters need to re invest these funds back into the
Foundation. Mark will take this initiative back to the committee to work
on the wording of the announcement.

Projects Committee

Initiative for Project Hosting funding supported by Board (Dave, Jeff,
Eoin, Matt)

Remaining Budget to be Reviewed

Industry Committee will request expedited approval of a portion of their
budget for AppSec EU

GIC will work with Membership and Conferences regarding sponsorship and
Membership

**Foundation Business**

  - All Committee Budgets need to be submitted Prior to the next Board
    Meeting for consideration

<!-- end list -->

  - Board oversight requirement removed

<!-- end list -->

  - The Board has agreed to the contracting of support staff for the
    Chapter's Committee, the Conferences Committee, and the Membership
    Committee. This person will have direct report to DOO and indirect
    report to Committee Chair.

<!-- end list -->

  - The Board will re engage Tesauro Consulting to complete the
    initiative that had been halfway completed prior to the summit.

<!-- end list -->

  - Tom Brennan requested a status update on the posting of the videos
    from the Global Summit.