Last revision (mm/dd/yy): **//**

[Vulnerabilities Table of Contents](ASDR_TOC_Vulnerabilities "wikilink")

## Description

A web application must define a default error page for 404 errors, 500
errors, and to catch java.lang. Throwable exceptions prevent attackers
from mining information from the application container's built-in error
response.

When an attacker explores a web site looking for vulnerabilities, the
amount of information that the site provides is crucial to the eventual
success or failure of any attempted attacks. If the application shows
the attacker a stack trace, it relinquishes information that makes the
attacker's job significantly easier. For example, a stack trace might
show the attacker a malformed SQL query string, the type of database
being used, and the version of the application container. This
information enables the attacker to target known vulnerabilities in
these components.

The application configuration should specify a default error page in
order to guarantee that the application will never leak error messages
to an attacker. Handling standard HTTP error codes is useful and
user-friendly in addition to being a good security practice, and a good
configuration will also define a last-chance error handler that catches
any exception that could possibly be thrown by the application.

## Risk Factors

TBD

## Examples

An "HTTP 404 - File not found" error tells an attacker that the
requested file doesn't exist rather than that he doesn't have access to
the file. This can help the attacker to decide his next step.

## Related [Attacks](Attacks "wikilink")

  - [Attack 1](Attack_1 "wikilink")
  - [Attack 2](Attack_2 "wikilink")

## Related [Vulnerabilities](Vulnerabilities "wikilink")

  - [Vulnerability 1](Vulnerability_1 "wikilink")
  - [Vulnerabiltiy 2](Vulnerabiltiy_2 "wikilink")

## Related [Controls](Controls "wikilink")

  - [:Category:Error Handling](:Category:Error_Handling "wikilink")

## Related [Technical Impacts](Technical_Impacts "wikilink")

  - [Technical Impact 1](Technical_Impact_1 "wikilink")
  - [Technical Impact 2](Technical_Impact_2 "wikilink")

## References

TBD

__NOTOC__

[Category:OWASP ASDR Project](Category:OWASP_ASDR_Project "wikilink")
[Category:Java](Category:Java "wikilink")
[Category:Deployment](Category:Deployment "wikilink")
[Category:Environmental
Vulnerability](Category:Environmental_Vulnerability "wikilink")
[Category:Error Handling
Vulnerability](Category:Error_Handling_Vulnerability "wikilink")
[Category:Vulnerability](Category:Vulnerability "wikilink")