<center>

[Back To The Mobile Top Ten Main
Page](https://www.owasp.org/index.php/Projects/OWASP_Mobile_Security_Project_-_Top_Ten_Mobile_Risks)

</center>

`    <td ``>Typically, an adversary will analyze and reverse engineer a mobile app's code, then modify it to perform some hidden functionality.`

</td>

`    <td ``>An adversary will use an automated tool to reverse engineer the code and modify it using malware to perform some hidden functionality.`

</td>

`    <td colspan=2  ``>`**`Prevalence`**

A lack of binary protections within a mobile app exposes the application
and it’s owner to a large variety of technical and business risks if the
underlying application is insecure or exposes sensitive intellectual
property. A lack of binary protections results in a mobile app that can
be analyzed, reverse-engineered, and modified by an adversary in rapid
fashion. However, an application with binary protection can still be
reversed by a dedicated adversary and therefore binary protection is not
a perfect security solution. At the end of the day, binary protection
only slows down a security review.

It is extremely common for apps to be deployed without binary
protection. The prevalence has been extensively studied by a large
number of security vendors, analysts, and researchers
<sup>[1]([#ReferenceItem1 "wikilink")\]</sup>
<sup>[2]([#ReferenceItem2 "wikilink")\]</sup>
<sup>[3]([#ReferenceItem3 "wikilink")\]</sup>
<sup>[17]([#ReferenceItem17 "wikilink")\]</sup>.

**Detectability**

It is difficult to detect that an adversary has reverse engineered an
app’s code. Typically, the app owner will realize reverse engineering
was successful when the code shows up in another app in iTunes
<sup>[4]([#ReferenceItem4 "wikilink")\]</sup>, Google Play
<sup>[5]([#ReferenceItem5 "wikilink")\]</sup>
<sup>[16]([#ReferenceItem16 "wikilink")\]</sup>, or a third-party app
store <sup>[6]([#ReferenceItem6 "wikilink")\]</sup>. Usually, the owner
discovers this by accident and not through active policing by an app
store.

There are many different viable solutions to detect code modification at
runtime and respond accordingly. At runtime, mobile apps should be
enabled to detect if a runtime modification / injection has occurred and
react in a number of different ways. Pre-determined reactions of the
apps will vary from either attempting to thwart the attack or fail in a
subtle way <sup>[7]([#ReferenceItem7 "wikilink")\]</sup>.

</td>

`    <td ``>The majority of mobile apps do not prevent an adversary from successfully analyzing, reverse engineering or modifying the app’s binary code `<sup>[`1`]([#ReferenceItem1 "wikilink")`]`</sup>`.  Organizations should apply binary protections to a mobile app under a few different circumstances:`

**Analysis and Reverse Engineering**

Binary protections slow down an adversary from analyzing exposed
interfaces and reverse engineering code within the mobile app. All too
often, the adversary will steal code and recycle it within another app
for resell <sup>[16]([#ReferenceItem16 "wikilink")\]</sup>. The app
owner is often unaware that the app has been repurposed and sold
elsewhere unless they utilize some form of appstore monitoring service
or similar. If there is a likely chance that this may occur, the owner
should consider binary protections to the app. But be warned, this
protection only slows an attacker from reverse engineering. It does not
prevent an attacker from doing so.

**Unauthorized Code Modification**

Binary protections slow an adversary from modifying the underlying code
or behavior to disable or add additional functionality on behalf of the
adversary. This is likely to occur if the application stores, transmits,
or processes personally identifiable information (PII) or other
sensitive information assets like passwords or credit cards. Code
modification often takes the form of repackaging or insertion of malware
into existing mobile apps <sup>[3]([#ReferenceItem3 "wikilink")\]</sup>
<sup>[18]([#ReferenceItem18 "wikilink")\]</sup>.

</td>

`    <td ``>Typically, a lack of binary protection will result in the following business impacts:`

  - Privacy Related and Confidential Data Theft;
  - Unauthorized Access and Fraud;
  - Brand and Trust Damage;
  - Revenue Loss and Piracy;
  - Intellectual Property Theft;
  - User Experience Compromise.

Many different analysts have provided policy guidance around minimizing
this risk <sup>[8]([#ReferenceItem8 "wikilink")\]</sup>
<sup>[9]([#ReferenceItem9 "wikilink")\]</sup>
<sup>[10]([#ReferenceItem10 "wikilink")\]</sup>
<sup>[11]([#ReferenceItem11 "wikilink")\]</sup>
<sup>[12]([#ReferenceItem12 "wikilink")\]</sup>.

</td>

If you are hosting code in an untrustworthy environment, you are
susceptible to this risk <sup>[1]([#ReferenceItem1 "wikilink")\]</sup>
<sup>[2]([#ReferenceItem2 "wikilink")\]</sup>
<sup>[3]([#ReferenceItem3 "wikilink")\]</sup>
<sup>[17]([#ReferenceItem17 "wikilink")\]</sup>. An untrustworthy
environment is defined as an environment in which the organization does
not have physical control. This includes mobile clients, firmware in
appliances, cloud spaces, or datacenters within particular countries.

If you answer yes to any of these questions, you are vulnerable to a
binary attack:

:\* Can someone code-decrypt this app (iPhone specific) using an
automated tool like ClutchMod or manually using GDB?

:\* Can someone reverse engineer this app (Android specific) using an
automated tool like dex2jar?

:\* Can someone use an automated tool like Hopper or IDA Pro to easily
visualize the control-flow and pseudo-code of this app?

:\* Can someone modify the app’s presentation layer (HTML/JS/CSS) of
this app within the phone and execute modified JavaScript?

:\* Can someone modify the app’s binary executable using a hex editor to
get it to bypass a security control?

First, the application must follow secure coding techniques for the
following security components within the mobile app:

:\* Jailbreak Detection Controls;

:\* Checksum Controls;

:\* Certificate Pinning Controls;

:\* Debugger Detection Controls.

Next, the app must adequately mitigate two different technical risks
that the above controls are exposed to:

:\# The organization building the app must adequately prevent an
adversary from analyzing and reverse engineering the app using static or
dynamic analysis techniques;

:\# The mobile app must be able to detect at runtime that code has been
added or changed from what it knows about its integrity at compile time.
The app must be able to react appropriately at runtime to a code
integrity violation.

The remediation strategies for these types of risks are outlined in more
technical detail within the [OWASP Reverse Engineering and Code
Modification Prevention
Project](https://www.owasp.org/index.php/Technical_Risks_of_Reverse_Engineering_and_Unauthorized_Code_Modification).

**Android Specific Best Practices:**

**Android Root Detection**

There are a few common ways to detect a rooted Android device:
Check for test-keys

:\* Check to see if `build.prop` includes the line
*ro.build.tags=test-keys* indicating a developer build or unofficial ROM
Check for OTA certificates

:\* Check to see if the file */etc/security/otacerts.zip* exists Check
for several known rooted apk's

:\* com.noshufou.android.su

:\* com.thirdparty.superuser

:\* eu.chainfire.supersu

:\* com.koushikdutta.superuser Check for SU binaries

:\* `/system/bin/su`

:\* `/system/xbin/su`

:\* `/sbin/su`

:\* `/system/su`

:\* `/system/bin/.ext/.su` Attempt SU command directly

:\* Attempt the to run the command `su` and check the id of the current
user, if it returns 0 then the su command has been successful

This section outlines typical app vulnerabilities that result from a
lack of binary protection. Items within parenthesis indicate examples of
tools you can use to test for these vulnerabilities.

## iOS Apps

:\* Disabling Code Encryption (*ClutchMod*);

:\* Jailbreak Detection Evasion (*xcon*);

:\* Class Dumping (*class-dump-z*);

:\* Method Swizzling (*Mobile Substrate*);

:\* Runtime Code Injection (*cycript*);

:\* Runtime Monitoring (*Snoop-It*);

:\* Runtime Analysis (*GDB*); and

:\* Reverse Engineering (*[IDA
Pro](https://www.hex-rays.com/products/ida/); Hopper*).

## Android Apps

:\* Bytecode Conversion (*apktool; dex2jar*);

:\* Runtime Analysis (*ADB*);

:\* Reverse Engineering (*[IDA
Pro](https://www.hex-rays.com/products/ida/); Hopper*);

:\* Disassembly (*baksmali*) and

:\* Code Injection (*Mobile Substrate*).

## Windows Phone Apps

:\* .NET Decompiler (''[JetBrains
dotPeak](https://www.jetbrains.com/decompiler/);
[ILSpy](http://ilspy.net/); [RedGate .NET
Reflector](http://www.red-gate.com/products/dotnet-development/reflector/)
'');

:\* Runtime Analysis
(*[Tangerine](https://github.com/andreycha/tangerine);
[XAPSpy](https://github.com/sensepost/xapspy)*);

:\* Reverse Engineering (*[IDA
Pro](https://www.hex-rays.com/products/ida/)*);

:\* Disassembly (*[MSIL Disassembler
(Ildasm.exe)](https://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/library/f7dy01k1%28v=vs.110%29.aspx)*)
and

There are many well-established security experts within the mobile space
that have written books on the topic of binary protection testing
<sup>[13]([#ReferenceItem13 "wikilink")\]</sup>
<sup>[14]([#ReferenceItem14 "wikilink")\]</sup>
<sup>[15]([#ReferenceItem15 "wikilink")\]</sup>.

<span id="ReferenceItem1">\[1\] Arxan Research: [State of Security in
the App Economy,
Volume 2](https://www.arxan.com/assets/1/7/State_of_Security_in_the_App_Economy_Report_Vol._2.pdf),
November 2013:

  -
    *“Adversaries have hacked 78 percent of the top 100 paid Android and
    iOS apps in 2013.”*</span>

<span id="ReferenceItem2">\[2\] HP Research: [HP Research Reveals Nine
out of 10 Mobile Applications Vulnerable to
Attack](http://www8.hp.com/us/en/hp-news/press-release.html?id=1528865#.UuwZFPZvDi5),
18 November 2013:

  -
    *"86 percent of applications tested lacked binary hardening, leaving
    applications vulnerable to information disclosure, buffer overflows
    and poor performance. To ensure security throughout the life cycle
    of the application, it is essential to build in the best security
    practices from conception."*</span>

<span id="ReferenceItem3">\[3\] North Carolina State University:
[Dissecting Android Malware: Characterization and
Evolution](http://www.csc.ncsu.edu/faculty/jiang/pubs/OAKLAND12.pdf), 7
September 2011:

  -
    *“Our results show that 86.0% of them (Android Malware) repackage
    legitimate apps to include malicious payloads; 36.7% contain
    platform-level exploits to escalate privilege; 93.0% exhibit the
    bot-like capability.”*</span>

<span id="ReferenceItem4">\[4\] Tech Hive: [Apple Pulls Ripoff Apps from
its Walled
Garden](http://www.techhive.com/article/249310/apple_pulls_ripoff_apps_from_its_walled_garden.html)Feb
4th, 2012:

  -
    *“While Apple is known for screening apps before they are allowed to
    sprout up in its walled garden, clearly fake apps do get in. Once
    they do, getting them out depends on developers who raise a
    fuss.”*</span>

<span id="ReferenceItem5">\[5\] Tech Crunch: [Developer Spams Google
Play With RipOffs of Well-Known Apps…
Again](http://techcrunch.com/2014/01/02/developer-spams-google-play-with-ripoffs-of-well-known-apps-again/),
January 2 2014:

  -
    *“It’s not uncommon to search the Google Play app store and find a
    number of knock-off or “fake” apps aiming to trick unsuspecting
    searchers into downloading them over the real thing.”*</span>

<span id="ReferenceItem6">\[6\] Extreme Tech: [Chinese App Store Offers
Pirated iOS Apps Without the Need To
Jailbreak](http://www.extremetech.com/mobile/153849-chinese-app-store-offers-pirated-ios-apps-without-the-need-to-jailbreak),
April 19 2013:

  -
    *“The site offers apps for free that would otherwise cost money,
    including big-name titles.”*</span>

<span id="ReferenceItem7">\[7\] OWASP: [Architectural Principles That
Prevent Code Modification or Reverse
Engineering](https://www.owasp.org/index.php/Architectural_Principles_That_Prevent_Code_Modification_or_Reverse_Engineering),
January 11th 2014.</span>

<span id="ReferenceItem8">\[8\] Gartner report: Avoiding Mobile App
Development Security Pitfalls, 24 May 2013:

  -
    *"For critical applications, such as transactional ones and
    sensitive enterprise applications, hardening should be
    used."*</span>

<span id="ReferenceItem9">\[9\] Gartner report: Emerging Technology
Analysis: Mobile Application Shielding, March 26th, 2013:

  -
    *"As more regulated and sensitive data applications move to mobile
    platforms the need to increase data protection increases. Mobile
    application shielding presents the opportunity to security providers
    to offer higher data protection standards to mobile platforms that
    exceed mobile OS security."*</span>

<span id="ReferenceItem10">\[10\] Gartner report: Proliferating Mobile
Transaction Attack Vectors and What to Do About Them, March 1st, 2013:

  -
    *"Use mobile application security testing services and
    self-defending application utilities to help prevent hacking
    attempts."*</span>

<span id="ReferenceItem11">\[11\] Gartner report: Select a Secure Mobile
Wallet for Proximity, March 1st, 2013:

  -
    *"Application hardening can fortify sensitive business code against
    hacking attempts, such as reverse engineering”*</span>

<span id="ReferenceItem12">\[12\] Forrester paper: Choose The Right
Mobile Development Solutions For Your Organization, May 6th 2013:

  -
    *“5 Key Protections: Data Protection, App Compliance, App-Level
    Threat Defense, Security Policy Enforcement, App Integrity”*</span>

<span id="ReferenceItem13">\[13\] John Wiley and Sons, Inc: [iOS
Hacker's
Handbook](http://www.amazon.com/iOS-Hackers-Handbook-Charlie-Miller/dp/1118204123),
Published May 2012, ISBN 1118204123.</span>

<span id="ReferenceItem14">\[14\] McGraw Hill Education: [Mobile Hacking
Exposed](http://mobilehackingexposed.com/), Published July 2013, ISBN
0071817018.</span>

<span id="ReferenceItem15">\[15\] Publisher Unannounced: [Android
Hacker's
Handbook](http://www.amazon.com/Android-Hackers-Handbook-Joshua-Drake/dp/111860864X),
To Be Published April 2014.</span>

<span id="ReferenceItem16">\[16\] Software Development Times: [More
than 5,000 apps in the Google Play Store are copied APKs, or
'thief-ware'](http://sdt.bz/66393#ixzz2sHa7dFMp), November 20 2013:

  -
    *“In most cases, the 2,140 copycat developers that were found
    reassembled the apps almost identically, adding new advertising SDKs
    to siphon profits away from the original developers.*</span>

<span id="ReferenceItem17">\[17\] InfoSecurity Magazine: [Two Thirds of
Personal Banking Apps Found Full of
Vulnerabilities](http://www.infosecurity-magazine.com/view/36376/two-thirds-of-personal-banking-apps-found-full-of-vulnerabilities/),
January 3 2014:

  -
    *“But one of his more worrying findings came from disassembling the
    apps themselves ... what he found was hardcoded development
    credentials within the code. An attacker could gain access to the
    development infrastructure of the bank and infest the application
    with malware causing a massive infection for all of the
    application’s users.”*</span>

<span id="ReferenceItem18">\[18\] InfoSecurity Magazine: [Mobile Malware
Infects Millions; LTE Spurs
Growth](http://www.infosecurity-magazine.com/view/36686/mobile-malware-infects-millions-lte-spurs-growth/),
January 29 2014:

  -
    *"Number of mobile malware samples is growing at a rapid clip,
    increasing by 20-fold in 2013... It is trivial for an attacker to
    hijack a legitimate Android application, inject malware into it and
    redistribute it for consumption. There are now binder kits available
    that will allow an attacker to automatically inject malware into an
    existing application"*</span>