`   <td ``>Threat agents include the following: anyone with physical access to data that has been encrypted improperly, or mobile malware acting on an adversary's behalf.`

</td>

`    <td ``>Attack vectors include the following: decryption of data via physical access to the device or network traffic capture, or malicious apps on the device with access to the encrypted data.`

</td>

`    <td colspan=2 ``>In order to exploit this weakness, an adversary must successfully return encrypted code or sensitive data to its original unencrypted form due to weak encryption algorithms or flaws within the encryption process.`

</td>

`    <td ``>This vulnerability will result in the unauthorized retrieval of sensitive information from the mobile device.`

</td>

`    <td ``>This vulnerability can have a number of different business impacts. Typically, broken cryptography will result in the following:`

  - Privacy Violations;
  - Information Theft;
  - Code Theft;
  - Intellectual Property Theft; or
  - Reputational Damage.

</td>

Insecure use of cryptography is common in most mobile apps that leverage
encryption. There are two fundamental ways that broken cryptography is
manifested within mobile apps. First, the mobile app may use a process
behind the encryption / decryption that is fundamentally flawed and can
be exploited by the adversary to decrypt sensitive data. Second, the
mobile app may implement or leverage an encryption / decryption
algorithm that is weak in nature and can be directly decrypted by the
adversary. The following subsections explore both of these scenarios in
more depth:

## Reliance Upon Built-In Code Encryption Processes

By default, iOS applications are protected (in theory) from reverse
engineering via code encryption. The iOS security model requires that
apps be encrypted and signed by trustworthy sources in order to execute
in non-jailbroken environments. Upon start-up, the iOS app loader will
decrypt the app in memory and proceed to execute the code after its
signature has been verified by iOS. This feature, in theory, prevents an
attacker from conducting binary attacks against an iOS mobile app.

Using freely available tools like ClutchMod or GBD, an adversary will
download the encrypted app onto their jailbroken device and take a
snapshot of the decrypted app once the iOS loader loads it into memory
and decrypts it (just before the loader kicks off execution). Once the
adversary takes the snapshot and stores it on disk, the adversary can
use tools like IDA Pro or Hopper to easily perform static / dynamic
analysis of the app and conduct further binary attacks.

Bypassing built-in code encryption algorithms is trivial at best. Always
assume that an adversary will be able to bypass any built-in code
encryption offered by the underlying mobile OS. For more information
about additional steps you can take to provide additional layers of
reverse engineering prevention, see M9.

### Poor Key Management Processes

The best algorithms don't matter if you mishandle your keys. Many make
the mistake of using the correct encryption algorithm, but implementing
their own protocol for employing it. Some examples of problems here
include:

  - Including the keys in the same attacker-readable directory as the
    encrypted content;
  - Making the keys otherwise available to the attacker;
  - Avoid the use of hardcoded keys within your binary; and
  - Keys may be intercepted via binary attacks. See M10 for more
    information on preventing binary attacks.

### Creation and Use of Custom Encryption Protocols

There is no easier way to mishandle encryption--mobile or
otherwise--than to try to create and use your own encryption algorithms
or protocols.

Always use modern algorithms that are accepted as strong by the security
community, and whenever possible leverage the state of the art
encryption APIs within your mobile platform. Binary attacks may result
in adversary identifying the common libraries you have used along with
any hardcoded keys in the binary. In cases of very high security
requirements around encryption, you should strongly consider the use of
whitebox cryptography. See M10 for more information on preventing binary
attacks that could lead to the exploitation of common libraries.

### Use of Insecure and/or Deprecated Algorithms

Many cryptographic algorithms and protocols should not be used because
they have been shown to have significant weaknesses or are otherwise
insufficient for modern security requirements. These include:

  - RC2
  - MD4
  - MD5
  - SHA1

It is best to do the following when handling sensitive data:

  - Avoid the storage of any sensitive data on a mobile device where
    possible.
  - Apply cryptographic standards that will withstand the test of time
    for at least 10 years into the future; and
  - Follow the NIST guidelines on recommended algorithms (see external
    references).

<!-- end list -->

  - [OWASP Cryptographic Storage Cheat
    Sheet](https://www.owasp.org/index.php/Cryptographic_Storage_Cheat_Sheet)
  - [OWASP Key Management Cheat
    Sheet](https://www.owasp.org/index.php/Key_Management_Cheat_Sheet)

<!-- end list -->

  - [NIST Encryption
    Guidelines](http://csrc.nist.gov/publications/drafts/800-175/sp800-175b_draft.pdf)