<center>

[Back To The Mobile Top Ten Main
Page](https://www.owasp.org/index.php/Projects/OWASP_Mobile_Security_Project_-_Top_Ten_Mobile_Risks)

</center>

`    <td ``>Threat agents that exploit authentication vulnerabilities typically do so through automated attacks that use available or custom-built tools.`

</td>

`    <td ``>Once the adversary understands how the authentication scheme is vulnerable, they fake or bypass authentication by submitting service requests to the mobile app's backend server and bypass any direct interaction with the mobile app. This submission process is typically done via mobile malware within the device or botnets owned by the attacker.`

</td>

`    <td colspan=2  ``>Poor or missing authentication schemes allow an adversary to anonymously execute functionality within the mobile app or backend server used by the mobile app. Weaker authentication for mobile apps is fairly prevalent due to a mobile device's input form factor. The form factor highly encourages short passwords that are often purely based on 4-digit PINs.`

Authentication requirements for mobile apps can be quite different from
traditional web authentication schemes due to availability requirements.

In traditional web apps, users are expected to be online and
authenticate in real-time with a backend server. Throughout their
session, there is a reasonable expectation that they will have
continuous access to the Internet.

In mobile apps, users are not expected to be online at all times during
their session. Mobile internet connections are much less reliable or
predictable than traditional web connections. Hence, mobile apps may
have uptime requirements that require offline authentication. This
offline requirement can have profound ramifications on things that
developers must consider when implementing mobile authentication.

To detect poor authentication schemes, testers can perform binary
attacks against the mobile app while it is in 'offline' mode. Through
the attack, the tester will force the app to bypass offline
authentication and then execute functionality that should require
offline authentication (for more information on binary attacks, see
M10). As well, testers should try to execute any backend server
functionality anonymously by removing any session tokens from any
POST/GET requests for the mobile app functionality.

To test for poor authorization schemes, testers can perform binary
attacks against the mobile app and try to execute privileged
functionality that should only be executable with a user of higher
privilege while the mobile app is in 'offline' mode (for more
information on binary attacks, see M10). As well, testers should try to
execute any privileged functionality using a low-privilege session token
within the corresponding POST/GET requests for the sensitive
functionality to the backend server.Poor or missing authorization
schemes allow an adversary to execute functionality they should not be
entitled to using an authenticated but lower- privilege user of the
mobile app. Authorization requirements are more vulnerable when making
authorization decisions within the mobile device instead of through a
remote server. This may be a requirement due to mobile requirements of
offline usability.

</td>

`    <td ``>The technical impact of poor authentication is that the solution is unable to identify the user performing an action request. Immediately, the solution will be unable to log or audit user activity because the identity of the user cannot be established. This will contribute to an inability to detect the source of an attack, the nature of any underlying exploits, or how to prevent future attacks.`

Authentication failures may expose underlying authorization failures as
well. When authentication controls fail, the solution is unable to
verify the user's identity. This identity is linked to a user's role and
associated permissions. If an attacker is able to anonymously execute
sensitive functionality, it highlights that the underlying code is not
verifying the permissions of the user issuing the request for the
action. Hence, anonymous execution of code highlights failures in both
authentication and authorization controls.

The technical impact of poor authorization is similar in nature to the
technical impact of poor authentication. The technical impact can be
wide ranging in nature and dependent upon the nature of the
over-privileged functionality that is executed. For example,
over-privileged execution of remote or local administration
functionality may result in destruction of systems or access to
sensitive information.

</td>

`    <td ``>The business impact of poor authentication will typically result in the following at a minimum:`

  - Reputational Damage

In the event that a user (anonymous or verified) is able to execute
over-privileged functionality, the business may experience the following
impacts:

  - Reputational Damage;
  - Fraud; or
  - Information Theft.

</td>

Avoid the following Insecure Mobile Application Authentication Design
Patterns:

  - If you are porting a web application to its mobile equivalent,
    authentication requirements of mobile applications should match that
    of the web application component. Therefore, it should not be
    possible to authenticate with less authentication factors than the
    web browser.
  - Authenticating a user locally can lead to client-side bypass
    vulnerabilities. If the application stores data locally, the
    authentication routine can be bypassed on jailbroken devices through
    run-time manipulation or modification of the binary. If there is a
    compelling business requirement for offline authentication, see M10
    for additional guidance on preventing binary attacks against the
    mobile app.
  - Where possible, ensure that all authentication requests are
    performed server-side. Upon successful authentication, application
    data will be loaded onto the mobile device. This will ensure that
    application data will only be available after successful
    authentication.
  - If client-side storage of data is required, the data will need to be
    encrypted using an encryption key that is securely derived from the
    user’s login credentials. This will ensure that the stored
    application data will only be accessible upon successfully entering
    the correct credentials. There are additional risks that the data
    will be decrypted via binary attacks. See M10 for additional
    guidance on preventing binary attacks that lead to local data theft.
  - Persistent authentication (Remember Me) functionality implemented
    within mobile applications should never store a user’s password on
    the device.
  - Ideally, mobile applications should utilize a device-specific
    authentication token that can be revoked within the mobile
    application by the user. This will ensure that the app can mitigate
    unauthorized access from a stolen/lost device.
  - Do not use any spoof-able values for authenticating a user. This
    includes device identifiers or geo-location.
  - Persistent authentication within mobile applications should be
    implemented as opt-in and not be enabled by default.
  - If possible, do not allow users to provide 4-digit PIN numbers for
    authentication passwords.

Developers should assume all client-side authorization and
authentication controls can be bypassed by malicious users.
Authorization and authentication controls must be re-enforced on the
server-side whenever possible.

Due to offline usage requirements, mobile apps may be required to
perform local authentication or authorization checks within the mobile
app's code. If this is the case, developers should instrument local
integrity checks within their code to detect any unauthorized code
changes. See M10 for more information about detecting and reacting to
binary attacks.  The following scenarios showcase weak authentication or
authorization controls in mobile apps:

1.  Developers assume that only authenticated users will be able to
    generate a service request that the mobile app submits to its
    backend for processing. During the processing of the request, the
    server code does not verify that the incoming request is associated
    with a known user. Hence, adversaries submit service requests to the
    back-end service and anonymously execute functionality that affects
    legitimate users of the solution.
2.  Developers assume that only authorized users will be able to see the
    existance of a particular function on their mobile app. Hence, they
    expect that only legitimately authorized users will be able to issue
    the request for the service from their mobile device. Backend code
    that processes the request does not bother to verify that the
    identity associated with the request is entitled to execute the
    service. Hence, adversaries are able to perform remote
    administrative functionality using fairly low-privilege user
    accounts.
3.  Due to usability requirements, mobile apps allow for passwords that
    are 4 digits long. Server code correctly stores a hashed version of
    the password. However, due to the severely short length of the
    password, an adversary will be able to quickly deduce the original
    passwords using rainbow hash tables. If the password file (or data
    store) on the server is compromised, an adversary will be able to
    quickly deduce users' passwords.