[OWASP Netherlands Chapter
Meeting](https://www.owasp.org/index.php/Netherlands#tab=Chapter_Meetings)
events held in 2011

'''Date & Time: November 14th, 2011 - 19:00 ''' **Location:
Rotterdam**
We are glad to announce David Rook twitter @securityninja as guest
speaker from Ireland\! More details to come\!

**David Rook** is the Application Security Lead at Realex Payments in
Dublin. He is a contributor to several OWASP projects including the code
review guide and the Cryptographic Storage Cheat Sheet. He has presented
at leading information security conferences including DEF CON, BlackHat
USA and RSA Europe. In addition to his work with OWASP David created a
security resource website and blog called Security Ninja
(http://www.securityninja.co.uk).

In 2010 the Security Ninja blog was nominated for five awards including
the best technology blog at the Irish Blog Awards, the Computer Weekly
IT Security blog award and was a finalist for the Irish Web Awards Best
Technology Site. In 2011 David received a Developer Security MVP award
from Microsoft. David has recently become one of the first mentors in
the Information Security Mentors project helping young people progress
their information security careers.

**Abstract:** Agnitio: the security code review Swiss army knife

Teaching developers to write secure code, helping security professionals
find security flaws in source code, producing application security
metrics and reports with integrity checks and audit trails. If you want
to implement an SDLC that produces secure software with the audit trails
and reports frequently demanded by auditors and management you need to
acknowledge that these are key constituents and implement them in a form
that is both easy to understand and use.

This is far easier to talk about than it is to implement in the real
world where well structured SDLC’s are rare and application security
programmes are usually under funded. Working with developers, security
professionals and management to cultivate an environment where secure
code is written and flaws found consistently requires both time and
money. The same can be said for producing informative reports and
metrics when all of your security code review data resides in notepad,
Word and Excel files. With these problems in mind I developed Agnitio to
be my security code review Swiss army knife and released it as a free
tool in late 2010.

In this demonstration filled talk I will show how Agnitio can be used to
addresses repeatability, integrity and audit trail concerns by requiring
the creation of application profiles, the use of a security code review
checklist consisting of over 80 application security questions and
mandatory integrity checks for reviews and reports created using the
tool. I will demonstrate how the inbuilt secure coding and security code
review guidance modules allow developers and security professionals to
access the information they need precisely when they need it. I will
also show how Agnitio automatically creates metrics and reports bringing
much needed visibility to the security code review process with no extra
effort required from the reviewer, developers or management.

Agnitio v2.1 will be demonstrated during this talk which will show how
Agnitio’s already powerful feature set has been expanded to guidance and
questions linked to the OWASP top 10 mobile risks as well as the ability
to decompile and analyse Android applications.

**Alex Thissen** is a principal architect at Achmea and concentrates on
integration-architecture and security. You can meet hem at various
conferences and seminars where he will share his experiences from the
field. He likes just about everything related to Microsoft products and
technologies, but tries to focus on building secure web-applications in
distributed enterprise environments.

**Abstract:** Implementing SDLC and lessons learned Paying attention to
security during application development is a must. Yet, often we find
that security didn’t get the attention it should have had. One of the
ways to force yourself to “think and act security” is to embed security
in your development process. The Microsoft Security Development
Lifecycle (SDL) is a platform-agnostic approach for applying security
during the various stages of your development process. In this session
you will get an overview of the Microsoft SDL and how it fits in
“traditional” and agile projects. But, with just an approach you are
not done. This session will also show the hurdles that Achmea
encountered during the implementation of an SDL, and what should be done
to make an SDL successful. You will get to see the lesson learned from
the Microsoft Competence Centre at Achmea IT.

### OWASP at the GovCert Symposium 2011

The OWASP Netherlands Chapter will be present as guest organisation at
the [GovCert Symposium 2011](http://www.govcert.nl/symposium)

### OWASP BeNeLux Day 2011

Mark your calendar for the 2011 edition: 1st and 2nd of December 2011 in
Luxemburg.
[The OWASP BeNeLux
Day 2011](https://www.owasp.org/index.php/BeNeLux_OWASP_Day_2011) is
scheduled for December 1st and 2nd.

### Chapter Meeting July 6th 2011

Location: VU University Amsterdam, De Boelelaan 1081, 1081 HV
Amsterdam
Speakers:
**Nick Nikiforakis**

Nick Nikiforakis is a PhD student at the Katholieke Universiteit Leuven,
in Belgium.

He belongs in the DistriNet research group and specifically in the
“Security & Languages” task-force.

His current research interests include low-level security for unsafe
languages and web application security

Nick holds a BSc in Computer Science and a MSc on Distributed Systems
from the University of Crete in Greece.

He worked for 3 years as a research assistant in the Distributed
Computing Systems group at the Foundation of Research and Technology in
Crete where he did research in network data visualization,
authentication schemes using mobile devices and phishing
countermeasures.

In the past, Nick has presented his work in academic conferences as well
as hacking conventions.

His work can be found online at www.securitee.org

**Abstract:** The increasing popularity of the World Wide Web has made
more and more individuals and companies to identify the need of
acquiring a Web presence. The most common way of acquiring such a
presence is through Web hosting companies and the most popular hosting
solution is shared Web hosting.

In this talk we investigate the workings of shared Web hosting and we
point out the potential lack of session isolation between domains hosted
on the same physical server. We present two novel server-side attacks
against session storage which target the logic of a Web application
instead of specific logged-in users. Due to the lack of isolation, an
attacker with a domain under his control can force arbitrary sessions to
co-located Web applications as well as inspect and edit the contents of
their existing active sessions. Using these techniques, an attacker can
circumvent authentication mechanisms, elevate his privileges, steal
private information and conduct attacks that would be otherwise
impossible. Finally, we test the applicability of our attacks against
common open-source software and evaluate their effectiveness in the
presence of generic server-side countermeasures.


**Marco Balduzzi**

Marco Balduzzi holds an MSc. in computer engineering and has been
involved in IT-Security for more then 8 years with international
experiences in both industrial and academic fields.

He worked as security consultant and engineer for different companies in
Milan, Munich and Sophia-Antipolis, in south France, before joining
EURECOM and the International Secure Systems Lab as Ph.D. researcher.

He attended well-known and high-profile conferences all over (Blackhat,
OWASP AppSec, NDSS) and currently speak five different languages.

Being a Free Software sympathizer, in the year 2K, he cofounded the
Bergamo Linux User Group and the University Laboratory of Applied
Computing.

In former times, he was an active member of several open-source projects
and Italian hacking groups

**Abstract:** The (in)security of File Hosting Services

File hosting services (FHSs) are used daily by thousands of people as a
way of storing and sharing files. These services normally rely on a
security-through-obscurity approach to enforce access control: for each
uploaded file, the user is given a secret URI that she can share with
other users of her choice. This talk presents a study of 100 file
hosting services and shows that a significant percentage of them
generate secret URIs in a predictable fashion, allowing attackers to
enumerate their services and access their file list. An attacker can
access hundreds of thousands of files in a short period of time, and
this poses a very big risk for the privacy of FHS users. Indeed, using a
novel approach, we show that attackers are aware of these
vulnerabilities and are already exploiting them to get access to other
users' files. The talk concludes by presenting SecureFS, a client-side
protection mechanism which can protect a user's files when uploaded to
insecure FHSs, even if the files end up in the possession of
attackers.

### Chapter Meeting May 19th 2011

Sogeti Nederland B.V. Wildenborch 3, 1112 XB Diemen

Speaker:

Jim Manico is a managing partner of Infrared Security with over 15 years
of professional web development experience.

Jim is also the chair of the OWASP connections committee, one of the
project managers of the OWASP ESAPI project, a participant and manager
of the OWASP Cheatsheet series, the producer and host of the OWASP
Podcast Series, the manager of the OWASP Java HTML Sanitizer project and
the manager of the OWASP Java Encoder project.

When not OWASP'ing, Jim lives on of island of Kauai with his lovely wife
Tracey.


Abstract Title: The Ghost of XSS Past, Present and Future. A Defensive
Tale.

Description: This talk will discuss the past methods used for XSS
defense that were only partially effective.

Learning from these lessons, will will also discuss present day
defensive methodologies that are effective, but place an undue burden on
the developer.

We will then finish with a discussion of future XSS defense mythologies
that shift the burden of XSS defense from the developer to various
frameworks.

These include auto-escaping template technologies, browser-based
defenses such as Content Security Policy, and Javascript sandboxes such
as the Google CAJA project and JSReg