  - [OWASP Netherland Wiki](Netherlands "wikilink")
    [All OWASP NL Events
    2013](Netherlands_Previous_Events_2013 "wikilink")

# May 14, 2013

"In this Chapter meeting you will learn how to protect your password
storage and how to take down bots in a peer to peer network"

## Programme

  -
    18:30 - 19:15 Registration & Pizza
    19:15 - 20:00 Securing Password Storage - Tiago Teles
    20:00 - 20:15 Break
    20:15 - 21:00 Neutralizing Peer-to-Peer Botnets - Dennis Andriesse
    21:00 - 21:30 Networking
    [Chapter meeting flyer
    (pdf)](Media:OWASP_Netherlands_Chapter_Meeting_2013-04-10.pdf "wikilink")

## Presentations

### Securing Password Storage - Increasing Resistance to Brute Force Attacks

By Tiago Teles.

In this talk Tiago Teles takes apart password protection scheme
analyzing the attack resistance of hashes, hmacs, adaptive hashes (such
as script), and encryption schemes. First, we present a threat model for
password storage. Then audience members will learn the construction,
performance, and protective properties of these primitives. Discussion
of the primitives will be from a critical perspective modeled as an
iterative secure design session. Ultimately, this session presents the
solution and code donated as part of the on- going OWASP PSM (password
storage module) project. Discussion of this solution will include key
techniques for hardening PSM learned through years of delivering
production JavaEE code to customers...

  -
    [The presentation (with notes or without notes) can be found
    here](https://github.com/jsteven/psm/tree/master/presentations)
    [The cheat sheet associated with this is
    here](https://www.owasp.org/index.php/Password_Storage_Cheat_Sheet)
    [Wiki page about Rainbow
    Table](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Rainbow_table)
    [Paper "Honeywords: Making Password-Cracking Detectable"
    (PDF)](http://people.csail.mit.edu/rivest/pubs/JR13.pdf)

### Neutralizing Peer-to-Peer Botnets

By Dennis Andriesse.

This presentation is a case study on our takedown efforts against
state-of-the-art peer-to-peer botnets. Unlike conventional botnets,
peer-to-peer botnets are decentralized, and thus cannot be disabled by
neutralizing centralized control facilities. Takedowns against
peer-to-peer botnets require a highly decentralized approach targeting
the infected drones themselves. We describe the technical and ethical
challenges we faced in our own takedown attempts.

  -
    [Download the presentation as
    PDF](Media:Owaspnl_zeus-owasp-2013‎.pdf‎ "wikilink")
    [Paper about resilience of peer-to-peer botnets
    (PDF)](http://www.few.vu.nl/~da.andriesse/papers/security-and-privacy-2013.pdf)
    [Technical rapport about Zeus (PDF)regular
    updated](http://www.few.vu.nl/~da.andriesse/papers/zeus-tech-report-2013.pdf)

## Speakers

### Tiago Teles

Tiago Teles is a Technical Consultant with 7 years of experience in
clients across different sectors and countries, including banking,
insurance, telecommunications and commercial organizations in a variety
of roles, Development, Business Intelligence, Quality Assurance and
Delivering Training.

### Dennis Andriesse

Dennis Andriesse is a Ph.D. candidate in the System and Network Security
Group at VU University Amsterdam. His research focuses on binary code
(de)obfuscation and reverse engineering techniques. Next to that, he is
also interested in advanced malware, particularly in the resilience of
peer-to-peer botnets.

## Venue

Avans Hogeschool Room: OB007 Onderwijsboulevard 215 5223 DE
's-Hertogenbosch

## Sponsor