[Netherlands](Netherlands "wikilink") events held in 2008

## Meeting schedule 2008

This is an overview of the 2008 local chapter meeting schedule. Details
of the meetings can be found in the announcements that will be posted
below this schedule.

    March 26th
    ----------
    Time         : 17.30 - 21.30
    Main Topic   : Software Vulnerability assessment
    Presentations: Complex(ity) matters, Mario de Boer (Dutch)
                   V.A.C. SQL injection, Marinus Kuivenhoven (Dutch)
                   Secure Programming with Static Analysis, Brian Chess (English)
    Location     : Mercure Utrecht Nieuwegein, Buizerdlaan 10, 3435 SB Nieuwegein
    Sponsor      : Fortify Software

    Oktober 27th
    ----------
    Time         : 17.30 - 21.30
    Main Topic   : Privacy and the Internet
    Presentations: Privacy and Internet (Dutch), Frank Fruijthoff and Ellen Hoving
                   Vulnerability and source code scanners. (Dutch) Emile Strijbos
    Location     : ps_testware B.V., Dorpsstraat 26, 3941 JM DOORN
    Sponsor      : ps_testware B.V.

    December 11th
    ----------
    Time         : 17.30 - 21.30
    Main Topic   : Workshop: Architectural and design risk analysis
    Presentations: Architectural risk analyses (English), André N. Klingsheim and Lars-Helge Netland
    Location     : TTY Amsterdam, Kerkstraat 342, 1017 JA Amsterdam
    Sponsor      : TTY Internet Solutions

## Meeting minutes December 11th 2008

At December 11th, the Dutch OWASP chapter came together at the office of
the sponsor of the evening; TTY in Amsterdam. The topic of the evening
was 'Architectural and design risk analysis'. There were 2 speakers and
approximately 28 attendees.

The sponsor of the evening gave a small introduction about the company
and the beautiful location they are housed in; a modernised old russian
church in the centre of Amsterdam. After the introduction Bert Koelewijn
asked for attention for the OWASP Education Project. This project aims
to provide in building blocks of web application security information.
Contributors are needed so if someone wants to participate please take a
look at the project page
[1](http://www.owasp.org/index.php/Category:OWASP_Education_Project).

**Presentation:** Architectural and design risk analysis
After the introduction and the announcements the 2 Norwegian speakers of
the evening were introduced: André N. Klingsheim & Lars-Helge Netland.
During their PhD's both André & Lars-Helge researched the Norwegian
banking systems and their vulnerabilities resulting in several papers
and presentations [2](http://www.nowires.org/BankSecurity/). The
presentation of this evening focused on the current risks and the
perception of these risks.

Nowadays the trading in malware, botnets and vulnerabilities is maturing
and industrializing. Attacks can be outsourced at bulk prices and
threats no longer arise from a single or group of hackers, but can be
bought as a service. This professionalisation requires a new approach in
risk analysis and risk perception. The main problem in risk analysis is
the human psyche; future risks are underestimated or tremendously
overestimated, losses valued higher than gains, and attacks occured in
the past are perceived 'more real'. This often results in inefficient
investments in security contributing to the general perception that
security is expensive.

Another problem in risk analysis is the occurence of so-called 'black
swans'. A black swan is a "large-impact, hard-to-predict, and rare event
beyond the realm of normal expectations"
[3](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Black_swan_theory). Due to the
asymmetry in likehood and impact these events cannot be properly taken
in to account for in traditional risk analysis models. A way of handling
with these unforeseen risks is not using likelihood and impact to
evaluate risks but instead look at the cost to fix and the cost of the
consequence.

The conclusions of the evening were that vulnerabilities will be more
easily and quickly exploited and attacks more intense and coordinated in
the coming years. This change requires a different approach in risk
analysis. Vulnerabilities should be fixed as early and as many as
possible without trying to estimate a likelihood of occuring.
Implementing security as early as possible in the SDLC and increasing
security awareness on all levels is the key in beating risks in a cost
efficient way.

## Announcement December 11th 2008: Architectural and design risk analysis

**Summary**
The main goal of the upcoming OWASP-NL meeting is to provide information
to managers, architects, designers, developers and security and risk
professionals about risk analyses in the architectural and design
phases. The speakers will give specific examples and there will be time
to ask questions.
Please register before December 8th because of the necessary catering
arrangements.

**Location**
The location and catering is provided by the sponsor of this meeting:

<table>

<tr>

<td width="350">

TTY Internet Solutions
Kerkstraat 342
1017 JA Amsterdam

</td>

<td width="350">

![TTYlogo.jpg](TTYlogo.jpg "TTYlogo.jpg")

</td>

</tr>

<tr>

<td width="350">

For the route by car or public transport please visit:
<http://tty.nl/nl/contact/amsterdam>

</td>

<td width="350">

TTY was founded in 1997 and has grown to be a solid Full Service
Internet Partner. For a wide range of companies, large financial
institutions, publishers and large insurance companies TTY develops
high-traffic websites, shops, backoffice- and payment systems. TTY is
especially known as a partner (and in some cases shareholder) of
successful internet hits as 2dehands.nl, ViaVia.nl,
Nationale-Vacaturebank.nl, Sellaband.com, jaap.nl en Gekko.com.
For more information please visit: <http://tty.nl>

</td>

</tr>

</table>



**Program**
17.30 – 18.30 **Check-In** (catering included)

18.30 – 19:00 **Introduction** (OWASP organization, projects, sponsor)

19.00 – 21.00 **Architectural risk analyses** (English), André N.
Klingsheim and Lars-Helge Netland
This workshop will explore how businesses can use risk analysis in the
architecture/design phase of software development to produce more secure
software. Participants will get an introduction to risk analysis, which
will cover both definitions and how to apply the concepts in practice.
The workshop consists of four parts: a short overview of current
security threats; an introduction to risk management; an exploration of
the limitations of risk management; and some real world applications of
the presented techniques.
Lars-Helge Netland and André N. Klingsheim are software security
analysts at, and co-owners of, NoWires Group AS. They both hold PhD
degrees in applied software security, focused on risk analysis of
software architecture and design.

20.00 – 20:15 **Break**

21.15 – 21:30 **Discussion, questions and social**

If you want to attend, please send an email to: owasp@irc2.com.
Please register before December 8th, because of the necessary catering
arrangements.

All OWASP chapter meetings are free of charge and you don’t have to be
an OWASP member to attend. There are never any vendor pitches or sales
presentations at OWASP meetings.

NOTE TO CISSP's: OWASP Meetings count towards CPE Credits.

The announcement and full descriptions can be found here:
[Media:Announcement_11_December.pdf](Media:Announcement_11_December.pdf "wikilink")

## Meeting minutes October 27th 2008

At October 27th, the Dutch OWASP chapter came together at the office of
the sponsor of the evening; ps_testware in Doorn. The subject of the
evening was 'Privacy and the Internet’. There were 2 speakers and
approximately 25 attendees.

After a short welcome talk by both the sponsor and OWASP, Mario de Boer
had an announcement about a new OWASP project; ORPRO, the Open Review
Project. The goal of the project is to review Open Source Software from
an independent point of view. Reviews will be done both manually and
with the aid of source code analysis software provided by Fortify. The
first software package to be reviewed is already available so reviewers
are needed. More information can be found on the OWASP project page.
[4](http://www.owasp.org/index.php/Category:OWASP_Open_Review_Project)

**First presentation:** Privacy & the Internet presented by Frank
Fruijthoff and Ellen Hoving.
The goal of this presentation was to show the problems in regulating
privacy on the internet by law. The presentation was roughly split in 3
parts: definitions, requirements and context.
The main problem with regulating privacy is that the concept of privacy
is very broad and not well defined. Privacy can have different meanings
and consequences in different contexts. Most laws therefore focus on the
individual and define privacy as 'protection of personal information'
where 'personal information' is all data that can be tracked back to a
single person. The last years many countries within the EU developed
internet laws concerning privacy on the internet. These laws state that
information can only be used what it originally was intended for and
usage of that information must be reported at central register. This
register also makes it possible to file a complaint and check what
companies use personal information for what purposes. While these rules
are mostly sufficient for local databases they often fail when applied
to information stored on or with use of the internet. Problems
encountered are captured in the "four D's";
\- Internet is deterritorialized; internet has no boundaries.
\- Internet is deregulated; internet has no law, only terms of use.
\- Internet is dematerialized; internet is not physical.
\- Internet is decentralized; there is no single regulating or
controlling organization.
Although the protection of personal data is more and more covered by
laws, the increasing usage of external storage and connections over the
internet will make it harder to enforce them. The main conclusion of the
evening was that, although many initiatives improving privacy exist, the
very properties of the internet make it hard to ensure privacy
completely.

**Second presentation:** Vulnerability and source code scanners
presented by E. Strijbos. This presentation showed the results of a
research concerning the feasibility of a Web Application Security
Certification by the usage of vulnerability scanners.
With the daily increasing amount of threads and vulnerabilities in web
applications there is a market-driven demand for an independent and
automated scan service. Current scan services often lack coverage and
depth of scanning and give no details about the used scanning methods.
In this research several commercial vulnerability scanners and static
analysis tools were compared and checked for scantime, accuracy, false
positives, and ease of use. The results showed that almost all scanners
find most of the vulnerabilities, but also produce many false positives.
Also, without proper configuration the amount of results can be
overwhelming and inconclusive. Furthermore results showed that static
analysis scanners are much faster than vulnerability scanners, but have
a more limited usage. The main conclusion was that although
vulnerability scanners and static analysis tools can be very helpful in
identifying vulnerabilities, their current efficiency is not high enough
to use as the basis for an automated vulnerability scan.

## Meeting October 27th 2008: Privacy and the Internet

**Summary**
The main goal of the upcoming OWASP-NL meeting is to provide information
to developers and security professionals about personal and technical
privacy on the internet. The speakers focus on privacy regulations
related to the internet and on the mass amount of personal and technical
information available about persons and companies on the internet, with
and without their consent. Furthermore tools will be discussed that help
prevent leakage of privacy related and other kind of data. They will
give specific examples and there will be time to ask questions.
Please register before October 20th because of the necessary catering
arrangements.

**Location**
The location and catering is provided by the sponsor of this meeting:

<table>

<tr>

<td width="350">

ps_testware B.V.
Dorpsstraat 26,
3941 JM DOORN

</td>

<td width="350">

![Pstestware.jpg](Pstestware.jpg "Pstestware.jpg")

</td>

</tr>

<tr>

<td width="350">

The location has parking facilities for 15 cars. However parking in the
direct vicinity of ps_testware shouldn’t be a problem.

</td>

<td width="350">

ps_testware delivers services related to software testing and software
quality. In the field of software development, quality, time-to-market,
business processes and software acceptance they play the role of "your
devil's advocate" as an independent, flexible and specialized partner.
For more information please visit: www.pstestware.com.

</td>

</tr>

</table>



**Program**
17.30 - 18.30 **Check-In** (catering included)

18.30 – 19:00 **Introduction** (OWASP organization, projects, sponsor)

19.00 - 20.15 **Privacy and Internet** (Dutch), Frank Fruijthoff and
Ellen Hoving
In this presentation the general principles of privacy laws in the
Netherlands and the EU and specifically privacy and the internet will be
covered.
Frank Fruijthoff is a Compliance Officer with ING. He has a Compliance
and Risk Management background and is specialised in privacy.
Ellen Hoving is a graduated lawyer. She works as an independent
consultant specialized in compliance and privacy.

20.15 – 20:30 **Break**

20:30 – 21:00 **Vulnerability and source code scanners** (Dutch), Emile
Strijbos
For his Master thesis in computer science at the Radboud Universiteit in
Nijmegen, Emile Strijbos investigated vulnerability scanners and source
code scanners. These are automated tools that try to detect security
flaws, either in running web-applications or in their source code.
Emile tried out several of these tools, including both free and
commercial ones, to see how good they are at detecting standard
vulnerabilities, such as SQL injection, XSS, CSRF, etc.

21.00 – 21:30 **Discussion, questions and social**

If you want to attend, please send an email to: owasp@irc2.com.
Please register before October 20th, because of the necessary catering
arrangements. The number of registries is limited to 50 due to the
capacity of the location and will be handled in order of receipt.

All OWASP chapter meetings are free of charge and you don’t have to be
an OWASP member to attend. There are never any vendor pitches or sales
presentations at OWASP meetings.

NOTE TO CISSP's: OWASP Meetings count towards CPE Credits.

The announcement and full descriptions can be found here:
[Media:Announcement_27_Oktober.pdf](Media:Announcement_27_Oktober.pdf "wikilink")

## Meeting minutes March 26th 2008

At March 26th, the Dutch OWASP chapter came together in the Mercury
hotel in Nieuwegein. The meeting was sponsored by Fortify Software. The
subject of the evening was 'Software Vulnerability Assesment’. There
were 3 speakers and approximately 40 attendees.

After a short introduction of Migchiel de Jong (Fortify) about the
subject of Static and Dynamic Analysis and the tools that Fortify
provides the speakers of the evening where introduced.

**First presentation:** Practices of Complex(ity) matters (Dutch), Mario
de Boer
Mario de Boer has spent much of his free time the last 16 years into
disassembling various pieces of software and analyzing the code and its
statistics. The main advantage in analyzing binaries is that no access
to source code is needed, all dependencies (i.e. the compiler) are
included and it’s independent of the tool used. Disassembling compiled
code gives great insight in the complexity of the software and the entry
and exit points of data. Although there is no direct relation between
the complexity of software and its security, statistically the most
vulnerabilities appear in the most complex portions of a program. Data
entry points in complex portions of the code can give rise to possible
exploits so static analysis can give insight in the most vulnerable
places in software which is useful information in testing. The
disadvantages of static analysis are that an extensive knowledge of
assembly is needed and, due to its statistic nature, it gives rise to
many false positives. In conclusion static binary analysis, when used by
experts, can be a powerful tool to gain insight in the most vulnerable
parts of the software and be a valuable tool in both developing and
testing software.

**Second presentation:** V.A.C: SQL injection (Dutch), Marinus
Kuivenhoven
A new reoccurring topic on OWASP presentations will be the so called
VAC. In these presentations an expert will talk about a Vulnerability,
how to Assess it and possible Countermeasures. This evening Marinus
started with the second vulnerability in the OWASP top ten; SQL
injections.
With the aid of Webgoat, a few simple examples and the possible
consequences were shown. SQL injection is particularly useful exploit in
the reconnaissance phase since it can be abused for information leakage
and in getting information about e.g. the table structure.
On the internet and in literature many countermeasures against SQL
injections are described. However, many of these countermeasures are not
usable in a maintainable system or cannot prevent SQL injections
completely. The most important conclusion was that input should never be
trusted and should never be directly used.

**Third presentation:** Secure Programming with Static Analysis
(English), Brian Chess
The last speaker of the evening was Brian Chess who presented his new
book ‘Secure Programming with Static Analysis’. Brian made clear that,
although a powerful tool, static binary analysis is already too late in
the SDLC to be successful in preventing vulnerabilities. Scanning for
possible vulnerabilities should be implemented as early as possible i.e.
during coding. The main advantages of static analysis are the cost and
speed. Since errors and bad practices are identified in an early stage
they can be solved at the spot, making auditing the software more
efficient in term of time and depth.
Static analysis can successfully be used for style and type checking,
program understanding and verification, and for security reviews. The
success of static analysis, however, is fully depending on the rules
implemented in the scanner. Static analysis is also unable to identify
design flaws, right problems, or wrong user input.
The conclusion was that scanning for vulnerabilities can probably only
be successful with the aid of static analysis, but many requirements
should be met. Firstly it should become part of the SDLC and culture.
Secondly the right tool should be picked and people should be trained in
its use. Lastly investments should be made in building up a good rule
set and metrics.

## Meeting March 26th 2008: Software Vulnerability assessment

**Summary**
The main goal of the upcoming OWASP-NL meeting is to provide information
to developers and security professionals involved in creating secure
(web-)applications. The main focus will be on software vulnerability
assessment. The speakers will give specific examples and of course there
is time to ask questions about your own experiences.

**Location**
The location and catering is provided by the sponsor of this meeting:

<table>

<tr>

<td width="350">

Mercure Utrecht Nieuwegein
Buizerdlaan 10,
3435 SB Nieuwegein

</td>

<td width="350">

![Fortify.JPG](Fortify.JPG "Fortify.JPG")

</td>

</tr>

<tr>

<td width="350">

</td>

<td width="350">

Fortify Software products protect companies from today’s greatest
security risk: the software applications that run their businesses.
Combining deep application security expertise with extensive software
development experience, Fortify Software has defined the market with
award-winning products that span the software development cycle. Today,
Fortify Software fortifies the software for the most demanding customer
deployments, including the world’s largest, most varied code bases.

For more information please visit:
www.fortify.com

</td>

</tr>

</table>



**Program**
17.30 - 18.30 **Check-In** (catering included)

18.30 - 18:50 **Introduction** (OWASP, sponsor)

18.50 - 19.30 **Complex(ity) matters** (Dutch), Mario de Boer
Various methods exist to locate specific vulnerabilities in software. In
the presentation we will look at static analysis of binaries, and the
problems we face when trying to locate vulnerabilities. Several ideas
will be discussed to make the search easier, but at the same time less
exact. The first idea is trivial: automate as much as possible. The
second idea is nearly trivial: don't aim at exact vulnerabilities but
relax the search to locating potential vulnerabilities. We will give
examples that illustrate the results.
Mario de Boer is a senior security consultant at Logica, and as such
focuses on security management aspects like security frameworks,
compliance, monitoring and control and risk management. Before joining
Logica, Mario worked at the Dutch ministries of Defense and Justice, he
co-founded a security company and worked as a project manager in the
financial sector. For several years he taught courses in software
security analysis and secure software development. Besides security
management, Mario has interest in software security, reverse engineering
and cryptography. Within Logica Netherlands, he is knowledge manager
application security. Mario holds a PhD in Mathematics and is CISA and
CISSP.

19.30 - 19:50 **Break**

19:50 - 20:20 **V.A.C: SQL injection** (Dutch), Marinus Kuivenhoven
<u>**V**ulnerability:</u>
An application which uses a database for its information needs,
communicates with it trough SQL. SQL injection is an attack in which
malicious code is inserted into strings that are later passed to an
instance of a Database for parsing and execution.
<u>**A**ssessment:</u>
SQL injection can threaten the confidentiality, availability and
integrity of the data. The various types of SQL injection and their
impact will be shown.
<u>**C**ountermeasure:</u>
Any procedure that constructs SQL statements should be reviewed for
injection vulnerabilities because a database will execute all
syntactically valid queries that it receives. How this should be done
will be shown for the most popular languages.
Marinus is a Technology Specialist with Sogeti Nederland B.V.
specializing in service oriented architectures and secure application
development. His experience includes developing and administrating
Oracle-based systems.

20.20 - 21.00 **Secure Programming with Static Analysis** (English),
Brian Chess
Creating secure code requires more than just good intentions.
Programmers need to know how to make their code safe in an almost
infinite number of scenarios and configurations. Static source code
analysis gives users the ability to review their work with a fine tooth
comb and uncover the kinds of errors that lead directly to
vulnerabilities. This talk frames the software security problem and
shows how static analysis is part of the solution. We will look at how
static analysis works, how to integrate it into the software development
processes, and how to make the most of it during security code review.
Along the way we'll look at examples taken from real-world security
incidents, showing how coding errors are exploited, how they could have
been prevented, and how static analysis can rapidly uncover similar
errors.
Brian Chess is a founder of Fortify Software and serves as Fortify's
Chief Scientist, where his work focuses on practical methods for
creating secure systems. His book, Secure Programming with Static
Analysis, shows how static source code analysis is an indispensable tool
for getting security right. Brian holds a Ph.D. in computer engineering
from the University of California at Santa Cruz, where he studied the
application of static analysis to the problem of finding
security-relevant defects in source code. Before settling on security,
Brian spent a decade in Silicon Valley working at huge companies and
small startups. He has done research on a broad set of topics, ranging
from integrated circuit design all the way to delivering software as a
service.

21.00 - 21:30 **Discussion, questions and social**

**Registration**
If you want to attend, please send an email to: owasp@irc2.com.

All OWASP chapter meetings are free of charge and you don’t have to be
an OWASP member to attend. There are never any vendor pitches or sales
presentations at OWASP meetings.

NOTE TO CISSP's: OWASP Meetings count towards CPE Credits.