  - [OWASP Netherland Wiki](Netherlands "wikilink")
    [All OWASP NL Events
    2013](Netherlands_Previous_Events_2013 "wikilink")

# April 10, 2013

"In this Chapter meeting we will not REST until we have designed an
access control mechanism to protect your web services..."

## Programme:

  -
    18:30 - 19:15 Registration & Pizza
    19:15 - 20:00 “Access Control Design Best Practices” – Jim Manico
    20:00 - 20:15 Break
    20:15 - 21:00 “RESTful services, the web security blind spot” – Ofer
    Shezaf
    21:00 - 21:30 Networking

## Presentations:

### Access Control Design Best Practices

Access Control is a necessary security control at almost every layer
within a web application. This talk will discuss several of the key
access control anti-patterns commonly found during website security
audits. These access control anti-patterns include hard-coded security
policies, lack of horizontal access control, and "fail open" access
control mechanisms. In reviewing these and other access control
problems, we will discuss and design a positive access control mechanism
that is data contextual, activity based, configurable, flexible, and
deny-by-default - among other positive design attributes that make up a
robust web-based access-control mechanism.

  -
    [Download the presentation as
    PDF](Media:Owaspnl-jimmanico-toptendefensesv8.pdf‎ "wikilink")

### RESTful web services, the web security blind spot

As a light weight alternative to web services, RESTful services are fast
becoming a leading technology for developing mobile applications and web
2.0 sites. Upon first glance, RESTful services seem very different than
web services and suspiciously similar to regular web technology. The
similarity of RESTful services to regular web leads to the misconception
that RESTful services are secured in the same way. However, RESTful
services share many of the security risks of web services without the
compensating Web Services security controls. The presentation will
describe RESTful services and their use, the complexities in protecting
them and common attack vectors that specific to REST services such as
ULR embedded attacks. The presentation concludes with a discussion of
the challenges of security testing for RESTful services and present
novel approaches for automated testing of RESTful services using
grey-box testing, a method combining a client attack tool and a server
based monitor.

  -
    [Download the presentation as
    PDF](Media:Owaspnl-oferschezaf-securitytestingforrestapplicationsv6april2013.pdf "wikilink")

## Speakers

### Jim Manico

Jim Manico is the VP of Security Architecture for WhiteHat Security, a
web security firm. He authors and delivers developer security awareness
training for WhiteHat Security and has a background as a software
developer and architect. Jim is also a global board member for the OWASP
foundation. He manages and participates in several OWASP projects,
including the OWASP cheat sheet series and the OWASP podcast series.

### Ofer Shezaf

Ofer Shezaf is an internationally recognized application security
expert. Ofer manages security solutions at HP ArcSight and prior to that
managed web security research at HP Fortify and at Breach Security. Ofer
is an OWASP (Open Web Application Security Project) leader, the founder
of the OWASP Israeli chapter and a WASC (Web Application Security
Consortium) officer. Ofer is leading the Web Application Firewall
Evaluation criteria project and founded the ModSecurity core rule set
project and the WASC web hacking incident database project. Ofer is
blogging about the role and value of information security at
www.xiom.com trying to separate myth and reality in the information
security world.