  - [OWASP Netherland Wiki](Netherlands "wikilink")
    [All OWASP NL Events
    2013](Netherlands_Previous_Events_2013 "wikilink")

# October 31, 2013

## Programme

  -
    18:30 - 19:15 Registration & Pizza
    19:15 - 20:00 Third Party Java Libraries for Secure Development -
    Jim Manico
    20:00 - 20:15 Break
    20:15 - 21:00 From the Trenches: Real-World Agile SDLC - Chris Eng &
    Ryan O’Boyle
    21:00 - 21:30 Networking

## Presentations

### Top 10 Java Defenses for Website Security

by Jim Manico

Do not build your own web application security controls from scratch\!
This presentation describes the use of several OWASP, Apache and Google
open source Java projects that are essential tools to help you construct
a secure web applications.

  - [Download the presentation as
    PDF](Media:Top_10_Java_Defenses_for_Website_Security-Jim_Manico.pdf "wikilink")

### From the Trenches: Real-World Agile SDLC

by Chris Eng & Ryan O’Boyle Ideally, all organizations would incorporate
security into their Agile development processes; however, best-practices
Agile SDL models typically assume a simplified, idealized model of how
software is built. These models also impose impractical requirements
without providing the necessary support or expertise. In reality,
software development often involves multiple Agile teams working on
various components of a larger product, and only the most well-resourced
enterprises or ISVs have the bandwidth to execute on the ideal Agile
SDL, while smaller organizations are forced to adapt and make tradeoffs.

In this session, we’ll discuss how Veracode has incorporated security
into our own Agile development lifecycle for a product that involves
anywhere from two to seven Scrum teams working in concert to ship
monthly releases. We do this without designating any security experts
full-time to the project. We’ll explain how we’ve evolved our practices
to optimize the way our security research team interacts with our
engineering teams and accommodates their processes. We’ll also talk
about some of the lessons we’ve learned along the way, including things
that haven’t worked or wouldn’t scale, and how other organizations can
use our experience to integrate security practices into their own Agile
development programs.

  - [Recording at
    AppSec-EU](https://www.its.fh-muenster.de/owasp-appseceu13/rooms/Grosser_Saal/high_quality/OWASP-AppsecEU13-ChrisEngRyanOBoyle-FromtheTrenchesReal-WorldAgileSDLC_720p.mp4)
  - [Download the presentation as
    PDF](Media:Agile_SDLC_v1.1_-_OWASP_NL.pdf "wikilink")

## Speakers

### [Jim Manico](User:Jmanico "wikilink")

**Jim Manico** is the VP of Security Architecture for WhiteHat Security,
a web and application security firm. He authors and delivers developer
security awareness training for WhiteHat Security and has a 20 year
history building software as a developer and architect. Jim is also a
global board member for the OWASP foundation where he helps drive the
strategic vision for the organization. He manages and participates in
several OWASP projects, including the OWASP cheat sheet series and
several secure coding projects. For more information, see
<http://www.linkedin.com/in/jmanico>.

### [Chris Eng](User:Chris_Eng "wikilink")

Chris Eng is Vice President of Research at Veracode. Chris is a sought
after speaker at industry conferences, and has presented at events such
as BlackHat, RSA, OWASP, and CanSecWest. In addition to presenting on a
diverse set of application security topics, including cryptographic
attacks, testing methodologies, mobile application security, and
security metrics, Chris frequently comments on software security trends
for media outlets worldwide. Throughout his career at organizations such
as NSA, @stake, and Veracode, Chris has led projects breaking, building
and defending software

### Ryan O’Boyle

**Ryan O’Boyle** is a Principal Security Researcher at Veracode, and a
certified ScrumMaster. Prior to joining Veracode, he helped create the
internal penetration testing team at Fidelity Investments, where he was
focused not only on finding vulnerabilities but helping engineers fix
them and avoid them altogether.

## Venue

[SURFnet - Radboudkwartier 273, 3511 CK
Utrecht](http://www.surfnet.nl/nl/organisatie/Pages/routebeschrijving.aspx)

## Sponsor