  - [OWASP Netherland Wiki](Netherlands "wikilink")
    [All OWASP NL Events
    2016](Netherlands_Previous_Events_2016 "wikilink")

# July 7th, 2016

[Click here to
register](https://www.eventbrite.nl/e/tickets-owasp-netherlands-chapter-meeting-july-7-2016-26018118894)

## Venue

  -
    Surfnet
    Kantoren Hoog Overborch (Hoog Catharijne)
    Moreelsepark 48
    3511 EP Utrecht

<!-- end list -->

  -
    <https://www.surf.nl/contact.html>

### Directions

  - Loop vanaf de stationshal van Utrecht Centraal richting
    winkelcentrum Hoog Catharijne.
  - Ga na circa 100 meter bij Blokker rechtsaf en loop het
    Godebaldkwartier in.
  - Na 250 meter zie je links van de Albert Heijn de ingang van kantoren
    Hoog Overborch. Ga hier naar binnen en bel aan bij SURF.
  - Neem vervolgens de lift naar de 4e etage, waar de receptie zit.

<!-- end list -->

  - [route
    beschrijving](https://www.surf.nl/over-surf/contact/routebeschrijving-surf-surfmarket-en-surfnet/index.html)

## Programme:

  -
    18:30 - 19:15 Registration & Pizza
    19:15 - 20:00 Find and fix software security problems… wait, do not
    make security mistakes in the first place\!
    20:00 - 20:15 Break
    20:15 - 21:00 How to keep your secrets saf(er) on an Android device,
    Alternatives to ‘just don’t’
    21:00 - 21:30 Networking

## Presentations

### Find and fix software security problems… wait, do not make security mistakes in the first place\!

Today, companies do not have a shortage of known security problems in
their solutions. Tools and people point out numerous software security
problems that eventually should be fixed. So how do organizations deal
with all these issues? What is the most effective way to get issues
fixed? For companies taking security serious, the question is no longer
“How many problems can you find?”, but the real question is “How many
security issues can you fix or prevent developers from making?” In this
session, we explore different routes on how to find and fix security
issues, or prevent making them in the first place.

### How to keep your secrets saf(er) on an Android device

Alternatives to ‘just don’t’

In this presentation we will visit several approaches on how you can try
to keep a secret within your Android applications. We cover various
subjects: from guarding your authentication information to keeping your
keys a secret.

## Speakers

### Matias Madou

Matias is the founder of Sensei Security, a software security startup
building solutions to effectively fix and prevent security problems in
software. Matias has over a decade of hands-on software security
experience ranging from the research to improve existing solutions to
scoping and building new solutions. A dozen patents and a bunch of
papers are the result of his research that eventually led to a hand full
of commercial products.

### Jeroen Willemsen

Jeroen is a full stack developer specialized in IT security at Xebia
with a passion for mobile and risk management. He has developed multiple
applications and loves to spend time on tinkering with security tooling
and new technologies.

## **Sponsors**

Interested in Sponsoring the Netherlands OWASP Chapter, email
netherlands '@' owasp.org

::;Our structural Chapter and OWASP Benelux Days 2016 supporters:
[<https://www.owasp.org/images/9/9a/Logo_Informatiebeveiliging-200.png>](https://informatiebeveiliging.nl/)
[<https://www.owasp.org/images/9/92/Ecurify-2016.png>](http://www.securify.nl)
[<https://www.owasp.org/images/5/50/Nixu-logo.png>](https://www.nixu.com/en/nixubenelux)
[<https://www.owasp.org/images/f/f9/Logo_xebia.jpg>](https://xebia.com/agile-security-risk-management)