  - [OWASP Netherland Wiki](Netherlands "wikilink")
    [All OWASP NL Events
    2013](Netherlands_Previous_Events_2013 "wikilink")

# January 31, 2013

**Broken Online Strong Authentication and OWASP update**

  -
    This chaptermeeting will be about broken online strong
    authentication with banking web applications and OWASP updates.

## Programme:

  -
    18:30 - 19:00 Registration
    19:00 - 19:45 The Truth about the e.dentifier2 - Erik Poll
    19:45 - 20:00 Break
    20:00 - 20:45 OWASP Update - Martin Knobloch
    20:45 - 21:30 Networking

## Presentations

### The Truth about the e.dentifier2

We present a security analysis of an internet banking system used by one
of the bigger banks in the Netherlands, in which customers use a
USB-connected device – a smartcard reader with a display and numeric
keyboard – to authorise transactions with their bank card and PIN code.
Such a set-up could provide a very strong defence against online
attackers, notably Man-in-the-Browser attacks, where an attacker
controls the browser and host PC. However, we show that the system we
studied is flawed: an attacker who controls an infected host PC can get
the smartcard to sign transactions that the user does not explicitly
approve, which is precisely what the device is meant to prevent.

### OWASP Update

News and updates on OWASP BeneLux 2013, OWASP Dutch Chapter meetings,
AppSec EU 2013, OWASP Connector, the OWASP Newsletter and new OWASP
initiatives.

## Speakers

### Erik Poll

Erik works in the Digital Security group of the Radboud University on a
range of topics in security, including smartcards, security protocols,
software security, and critical infrastructures (esp. the smart grid).

### Martin Knobloch

Martin Knobloch is member of the Dutch chapter board and chair of the
Global Education Committee. Next to this he contributes to several
projects as the OWASP Education Project and the OWASP Academy Portal.
Martin is an independent security consultant and owner of PervaSec. His
main working area is (software) security in general, from awareness to
implementation. In his daily work, Martin is responsible for education
in application security matters, advise and implementation of
application security measures.