  - [OWASP Netherland Wiki](Netherlands "wikilink")
    [All OWASP NL Events
    2016](Netherlands_Previous_Events_2016 "wikilink")

# September 22nd, 2016

## Registration

[`Click``   ``here``   ``to``
 ``register`](https://www.eventbrite.nl/e/tickets-owasp-netherlands-chapter-meeting-22-september-2016-27373259155)`'''`

## Venue

Radboud University Nijmegen

`   Beta-faculty Huygensgebouw `
`   Heyendaalseweg 135, 6525 AJ Nijmegen `
`   Parkeergarage P11 `

## Programme

  -
    18:30 - 19:00 Registration & Pizzas
    19:00 - 19:15 OWASP Netherland and Foundation Updates
    19:15 - 20:00 Handling of Security Requirements in Software
    Development Lifecycle, Daniel Kefer, René Reuter
    20:00 - 20:15 break
    20-15 - 21:00 Hacking the OWASP Juice Shop, Björn Kimminich
    21:00 - 21:30 Networking

## Presentations

### Handling of Security Requirements in Software Development Lifecycle

The bigger the company you're working in, the more technologies and
methodologies used by development teams you are going to face. At the
same time, you want to address security risks in an appropriate,
reliable and measurable way for all of them.

After a short introduction of a unified process for handling security
requirements in a large company, the main part of the talk is going to
focus on a tool called SecurityRAT (Requirement Automation Tool) which
has been developed in order to support and accelerate this process. The
goal of the tool is first to provide a list of relevant security
requirements according to properties of the developed software, and
afterwards to handle these in a mostly automated way - integration with
an issue tracker being used as a core feature.

The tool was open sourced in May 2016 (available at
<https://github.com/SecurityRAT>) and is continuously being further
developed since then. The newest implemented features, work in progress
and future plans will form the last part of the talk.

  -
    [Download the presentation as
    PDF](Media:OWASP-NL_2016-09-22_Handling_Security_Requirements_in_SDLC.pdf "wikilink")

### Hacking the OWASP Juice Shop

OWASP Juice Shop\* is an intentionally insecure web app suitable for
pentesting and security awareness trainings written in Node.js, Express
and AngularJS. It is the first application written entirely in
JavaScript listed in the OWASP VWA Directory. It also seems to be the
first broken web app that uses the currently popular architecture of an
SPA/RIA frontend with a RESTful backend.

In this talk I will show why and how the app was created followed by a
demo how to hack it. Prepare for some nasty XSS, SQLI and CSRF flaws
bundled with some seriously broken access control and business logic -
all in one single application\!

(\*Translating "dump" or "useless outfit" into German yields "Saftladen"
which can be reverse-translated word by word into "juice shop". Hence
the project name. That the initials "JS" match with those of
"JavaScript" was purely coincidental\!)

#### Coverage

  - [Presentation online
    (HTML5)](http://bkimminich.github.io/juice-shop)
  - [Presentation on Slideshare
    (PDF)](https://slideshare.net/BjrnKimminich/juice-shop-an-intentionally-insecure-javascript-web-application)

## Speakers

### Daniel Kefer

1&1 Mail & Media Development & Techhnology GmbH, Head of Application
Security

Daniel Kefer has been working in the application security field since
2007. Having started as a penetration tester, he soon became passionate
about proactive security efforts and working closely with developers.
Since 2011 he has been working for 1&1 where he focuses on design and
continuous improvement of the internal secure SDLC process and its
implementation in different development departments. Apart from 1&1, he
also works as a volunteer for the OWASP OpenSAMM project.

### René Reuter

Robert Bosch GmbH, IT Security Consultant

René Reuter is a security engineer with over 4 years of experience in
the application security field. At Robert Bosch GmbH, he works as an IT
Security Consultant responsible for identifying vulnerabilities and
design flaws that may impact Robert Boschs' applications and
infrastructure. René holds a Master's Degree in Computer Science from
the University of Applied Sciences Karlsruhe.

### Björn Kimminich

Björn Kimminich is working in the area of software development for
Kuehne + Nagel for over 8 years where he is now responsible for Global
IT Architecture. His most sophisticated Open Source work is the
intentionally insecure web application Juice Shop, which just recently
was accepted as an OWASP Tool Project. As a side job he lectures
software development at the UAS Nordakademie where he teaches Java to
engineering students as their first programming language.

## Sponsors

:;The OWASP Netherlands Chapter is sponsored by:
[<https://www.owasp.org/images/9/9a/Logo_Informatiebeveiliging-200.png>](https://informatiebeveiliging.nl/)
[<https://www.owasp.org/images/9/92/Ecurify-2016.png>](http://www.securify.nl)
[<https://www.owasp.org/images/5/50/Nixu-logo.png>](https://www.nixu.com/en/nixubenelux)
[<https://www.owasp.org/images/f/f9/Logo_xebia.jpg>](https://xebia.com/agile-security-risk-management)