  - [OWASP Netherland Wiki](Netherlands "wikilink")
    [All OWASP NL Events
    2014](Netherlands_Previous_Events_2014 "wikilink")

# April 24th, 2014

**Quality assurance and tools**

  -
    [Link to the
    registration\!](http://www.eventbrite.nl/e/owasp-netherlands-chapter-meeting-april-24th-2014-amsterdam-tickets-10967561271)

## Venue

  - Hogeschool van Amsterdam
    Duivendrechtsekade 36
    Room E 1.46
    1096 AH Amsterdam
    Netherlands

[Click here for directions, building
'Kroonjuweel'](http://www.hva.nl/over-de-hva/locaties/)

## Programme:

  -
    18:30 - 19:00 Registration & Sandwiches
    19:00 - 19:15 Intro and OWASP Netherland and Foundation Updates
    19:15 - 20:00 Security as part of Quality Assurance – Boy Baukema
    20:00 - 20:15 Break
    20:15 - 21:00 Don't be a tool's fool – Dave van Stein
    20:45 - 21:30 Networking

## Presentations

### OWASP Update

Retrospective of 2013 activities as the BeNeLux-Day 2013 at the RAI
Amsterdam and looking forward to OWASP Conferences and event 2014.

  - [Download the presentation as
    PDF](Media:OWASP-NL_Chapter_Meeting_2014-04_-24_OWASP_Update.pdf "wikilink")

### Security as part of Quality Assurance

How can you be sure your application is 'secure'? Or 'secure enough'?
The answer off course, is Security Testing. But which kind of testing?
How much? When? By whom? How? And most important to the customer /
manager: how much is it going to cost. In this talk I'll be presenting
the 'Application Security Verification Standard 2013' (ASVS) by the
OWASP Foundation. A comprehensive framework for determining a security
'level' and steps to take to 'verify' this level. With this tool you'll
be able to answer all the questions above. I'll also talk briefly on how
it integrates with a Secure Software Development Lifecycle at Ibuildings
.

  - [Download the presentation as
    PDF](Media:OWASP-NL_Chapter_Meeting_2014-04_-24_Security_as_part_of_QA.pdf "wikilink")

### Don't be a tool's fool

Tools are important to both hackers and security testers, but they are
not 'the silver bullit'. You need to understand the limitations of tools
in order to get the most efficiency out of them. In this presentation
some tips and tricks for well-known tools will be shown to get you
started getting the right mind-set in using them.

  - [Download the presentation as
    PDF](Media:OWASP-NL_Chapter_Meeting_2014-04_-24_dont_be_a_tools_fool.pdf "wikilink")

## Speakers

### Boy Baukema

Boy is a Senior Software Engineer of 10+ years @ Ibuildings.nl, a web
and mobile development organization behind sites like nu.nl,
kieskeurig.nl and rtlnieuws.nl. As in-house WebAppSec specialist he is
responsible for implementing a SDLC and verifying the security of all
delivered projects.

### Dave van Stein

Dave van Stein is principal consultant security at KZA bv. He has more
than 13 years of experience in software and acceptance testing and
started specializing in Web Application Security in the beginning of
2008. Over the years Dave has gained experience with many open source
and commercial testing tools and has grown a special interest in the
more technical testing areas and virtualization techniques. Dave is an
active participant in the Dutch OWASP chapter and has certifications for
ISEB/ISTQB, C |EH, and GWAPT.