  - [OWASP Netherland Wiki](Netherlands "wikilink")
    [All OWASP NL Events
    2016](Netherlands_Previous_Events_2016 "wikilink")

# November 7th, 2016

## Registration

<https://www.eventbrite.nl/e/tickets-owasp-netherlands-chapter-meeting-november-7-201-rotterdam-28586809918>

## Venue

  - Hogeschool Rotterdam
    Wijnhaven 107, Rotterdam
    The room is H.5.314 on the 5th floor
    [Route
    information](https://www.hogeschoolrotterdam.nl/hogeschool/locaties/wijnhaven-61/)

## Programme

  -
    18:30 - 19:00 Registration & Pizzas
    19:00 - 19:15 OWASP Netherland and Foundation Updates
    19:15 - 20:00 "Web Security: Broken by default?" by Niels Tanis
    20:00 - 20:15 break
    20-15 - 21:00 "Building A Software Security Program" by Kuai
    Hinojosa
    21:00 - 21:30 Networking

## Presentations

### Web Security: Broken by default?

Web applications and used technologies are becoming more complex and if
we (as developers) need to deal with security problems we mainly focus
on fixing our code which can be very hard. At the end one part of the
problem chain is still there; the browser. Browsers are known for being
broken by default and that will make it even more hard to fix the
problem, some people say it maybe not even possible at all\!

There are some good web standards (discussed & drafted) that might be
able to help out with these problems in some way. In this session we
will dig into a couple of those in more detail and see if thatâ€™s really
the case\!

  -
    [Download the presentation as
    PDF](Media:Web_Security_-_Broken_By_Default_-_Niels_Tanis.pdf "wikilink")

### Building A Software Security Program

The proliferation of applications of all types continues unabated. As
organizations put more of their business functions in custom
applications their risk profile increases tremendously. Application
security is more difficult than any other area of security as it relies
on the due diligence of people supported by limited processes whereas
other aspects of security can be more easily automated and are supported
by well-defined policies. The successful management of the development
and release process through a comprehensive Software Security Program
that incorporates appropriate processes and check points will allow
organizations to reduce their risk profile while benefiting from a more
efficient end-to-end development process.

Please join me as I will provide an overview of how one organization
built a Software Security Program that addressed People, Process and
Technology challenges surrounding software development and security. I
will highlight the approach we took and the benefits we are reaping in
both lower costs and lower risk profiles of their applications.

  -
    [Download the presentation as
    PDF](Media:FS_Building_a_Sofware_Security_Program.pdf "wikilink")

## Speakers

### Niels Tanis

Niels Tanis works as an Application Security Consultant with Veracode.
He is a CSSLP and with a background in .NET software development and
penetration testing he is now helping out development teams in creating
more secure software.

### Kuai Hinojosa

Kuai Hinojosa is a Managing Software Security Consultant at Intel
Security, Foundstone Professional Services. He has been developing and
securing enterprise applications for over a decade. At Foundstone Kuai
is a member of the Software Application Security Services Team and
serves as the Service Line Lead for Security Development Lifecycle Gap
Assessments, Threat Modeling and the implementation of Software Security
Programs. Kuai specializes in linking together technical risks and
remediation advice, ensuring that development teams can correctly
interpret and act upon software security risks. Kuai has been
responsible for directly interfacing with C-level executives, Sr.
Developers, Software Architects and Sr. Management to guide and verify
remediation efforts as part of the implementation of Enterprise Software
Security Programs.

Before joining Foundstone, Kuai worked at Cigital where He delivered
security code reviews, penetration tests, architecture risk analysis and
contributed building training material for mobile security training. In
his time off, Kuai volunteers leading OWASP Global education efforts and
is a current co-leader of the Open Software Assurance Maturity Model
project.

## Sponsors

:;The OWASP Netherlands Chapter is sponsored by:
[<https://www.owasp.org/images/9/9a/Logo_Informatiebeveiliging-200.png>](https://informatiebeveiliging.nl/)
[<https://www.owasp.org/images/9/92/Ecurify-2016.png>](http://www.securify.nl)
[<https://www.owasp.org/images/5/50/Nixu-logo.png>](https://www.nixu.com/en/nixubenelux)
[<https://www.owasp.org/images/f/f9/Logo_xebia.jpg>](https://xebia.com/agile-security-risk-management)