  - [OWASP Netherland Wiki](Netherlands "wikilink")
    [All OWASP NL Events
    2016](Netherlands_Previous_Events_2016 "wikilink")

# April 21st, 2016

[Register
here](https://www.eventbrite.nl/e/tickets-owasp-netherlands-chapter-meeting-april-21st-2016-20829223769)

## Venue

Universiteit van Amsterdam

  - Universiteitsbibliotheek
    Singel 425, 1012 WP Amsterdam
    [route](http://www.uva.nl/over-de-uva/de-uva-in-amsterdam/locaties/locaties/locaties/content/folder/binnenstad/universiteitsbibliotheek.html)

## Programme

  -
    18:30 - 19:00 Registration & Pizzas
    19:00 - 19:15 OWASP Netherland and Foundation Updates
    19:15 - 20:00 Securing REST APIs with SSL/TLS - Youssef Oujamaa
    20:00 - 20:15 break
    20-15 - 21:00 Web Application Firewall, Filter and Bypass - Aatif
    Khan
    21:00 - 21:30 Networking

## Presentations

### Securing REST APIs with SSL/TLS

This talk will include an introduction and overview on SSL/TLS, after
that we will go through some cons and pros and why using mutual
authentication to secure your REST API resources is worth taking in
consideration. With this in mind we will dive into an example
implementation which uses Java EE 6, how to incorporate key management
with your continues delivery pipeline and the importance of maintenance.
At the end we will go through some hardening examples for the Apache
Tomcat web server.

  -
    [Download the presentation as
    PDF](Media:OWASP-NL_2016-04-21_Securing_REST_APIs_with_SSL-TLS.pdf "wikilink")

### Web Application Firewall, Filter and Bypass

This talk will take you through different features used by Web
Application Firewall which make it more difficult for penetration
testers during their testing. These controls block many of the automated
tools and simple techniques used to discover flaws today. It will also
give an overview on different filtering techniques and will explore how
to determine the rule sets protecting the application. You'll be able to
map out the rule sets and determine the specifics of how it detects
attacks. After identifying the attacks, you will see how it can be
bypassed.

  -
    [Download the presentation as
    PDF](Media:OWASP-NL_2016-04-21-Web_Application_Firewall,_Filter_and_Bypass.pdf "wikilink")

## Speakers

### Youssef Oujamaa

Youssef Oujamaa is a full-stack software engineer who currently works
for ING in Amsterdam, in his role he has end-to-end responsibility for
the development of API services including the security aspects. As an
aspirant engineer he started developing software on Linux during middle
school and got interested in computer security after participating in an
online security war game. He graduated as a computer engineer at the
Hogeschool van Amsterdam and wrote his final essay on the subject of
secure code analysis. His goal now is to get actively involved in the
computer security community and share his insights.

### Aatif Khan

Aatif Khan, cyber security researcher comes with over a decade of
experience in information security. Apart from consulting on application
security, he has also delivered infosec training's to corporate, defense
personnel and cyber crime police officials. He has previously presented
talk at OWASP Singapore, Malaysia, India and Dubai. He has also authored
papers on Advance Persistence Threats, Hacking the Drones, Web Security
2.0, Android Application Penetration Testing.

## Sponsors

:;The OWASP Netherlands Chapter is sponsored by:
[<https://www.owasp.org/images/9/9a/Logo_Informatiebeveiliging-200.png>](https://informatiebeveiliging.nl/)
[<https://www.owasp.org/images/9/92/Ecurify-2016.png>](http://www.securify.nl)
[<https://www.owasp.org/images/5/50/Nixu-logo.png>](https://www.nixu.com/en/nixubenelux)
[<https://www.owasp.org/images/f/f9/Logo_xebia.jpg>](https://xebia.com/agile-security-risk-management)