  - [OWASP Netherland Wiki](Netherlands "wikilink")
    [All OWASP NL Events
    2015](Netherlands_Previous_Events_2015 "wikilink")

# November 12th, 2015

[Click here to
register](http://www.eventbrite.nl/e/owasp-netherlands-chapter-meeting-november-12th-2015-amsterdam-tickets-19294675895)

## Venue

  - De Boelelaan 1105
    F647 6th floor, F-section
    1081 HV Amsterdam
    [see here for
    directions](http://www.vu.nl/nl/over-de-vu/contact-routebeschrijving/routebeschrijvingen/index.asp)
    Pizza's and beverages are sponsored by:
    ![VUlogo_NL.png](VUlogo_NL.png "VUlogo_NL.png")

## Programme:

  -
    18:30 - 18:50 Registration & Pizzas
    18:50 - 19:00 OWASP Netherland and Foundation Updates
    19:00 - 20:00 '.. talking of Deep Web' - Marco Balduzzi and Vincenzo
    Ciancaglini
    20:00 - 20:15 break
    20:15 - 21:00 A FAIR approach to risk - Wim Remes
    21:00 - 21:30 Networking

## Presentations

### '.. talking of Deep Web'

<span style="color:#FF0000"> TBD </span>

### A FAIR approach to risk

IT Risk Management has quickly evolved from something we did once or
twice a year to a full time practice within organizations large and
small. As more and more data becomes available and with the
understanding that taking risk is essential to doing business, we are
looking for new approaches to bring the technical and business
components of risk together. FAIR (Factor Analysis of Information Risk)
is a risk ontology that can help organizations in understanding,
communicating, and addressing information risk at all levels. In this
presentation we will explore FAIR as a tool for organizations and the
value it brings to all players on the risk playing field.

## Speakers

### Marco Balduzzi and Vincenzo Ciancaglini

**Dr. Marco Balduzzi** holds a PhD in applied IT security from Télécom
ParisTech and a M.Sc. in computer engineering from the University of
Bergamo. His interests concern all aspect of computer security, with
particular emphasis on real problems that affect systems and networks.
Some topics on which he has worked on are web and browser security, code
analysis, botnets detection, cybercrime investigation, privacy and
threats in social networks, malware, and intrusion detection systems. He
has been involved in IT Security for more than 10 years with
international experiences in both industrial and academic fields. He
previously worked as a Security Consultant and Engineer for different
companies, before joining the International Secure Systems Lab and then
Trend Micro Research as Senior Research Scientist. His work has been
published in top peer-reviewed conferences, e.g. NDSS, RAID and DIMVA,
and he has spoke at major security conference like Black Hat, Hack In
The Box, and OWASP AppSec. His applied research has been acknowledged
and published by important media outlets such as Forbes, The Register,
Slashdot, InfoWorld, and DarkReading. He is now part of the review board
of different conferences, including OWASP AppSec Research, Hack In The
Box, DIMVA and others.
**Dr. Vincenzo Ciancaglini** earned a M.Sc. in Telecommunications
Engineering from the Politecnico of Turin and a M.Sc. in Electrical
Engineering, Wireless Systems, from the Royal Institute of Technology in
Stockholm, Sweden. For several years, he worked as a developer at a
travel IT company in Sophia Antipolis, France. During this period, he
also took part in the formation of a research and innovation lab within
his company, where he was responsible for analysing new upcoming
technologies and their potential business developments. From 2009-2013,
he obtained his PhD from the National Research Institute in Automation
and Computer Science (INRIA) in Sophia Antipolis, with a thesis about
peer-to-peer networks interoperability and next-generation internet
protocols. Since 2012, he has worked at Trend Micro as a research
scientist within the Forward-Looking Threat Research team (FTR), a team
distributed all over the world, responsible for performing technological
scouting and investigation on cyber-criminal activities, and their
potential development in the coming years. His duties on the team go
from the development of new data analytics prototypes to identify
targeted attacks to the research on new encrypted networks (Darkweb), ad
also research on the Internet of Things (IoT).

### Wim Remes

As the Manager of Strategic Security Services for Rapid7 in EMEA, Wim
Remes leverages his 15+ years of security leadership experience to
advise clients on reducing their risk posture by solving complex
security problems and by building resiliency into their organization.
Wim delivers expert guidance on reducing the high cost of IT security
failures, both financially and in terms of brand reputation combining
his deep expertise in network security, identity management, policy
design, risk assessment, and penetration testing to develop innovative
approaches to enterprise security. Before joining the Rapid7 team, Wim
was a Managing Consultant at IOActive and previously he has worked as a
Manager of Information Security for Ernst and Young and a Security
Consultant for Bull, where he gained valuable experience building
security programs for enterprise class clients.

Wim has been engaged in various infosec community initiatives such as
the co-development of the Penetration Testing Execution Standard (PTES),
InfosecMentors, and organizing the BruCON security conference. Wim has
been a featured speaker at international conferences such as
Excaliburcon (China), Black Hat Europe, Source Boston, Source Barcelona
and SecZone (Colombia). He was also a Member of the Board of Directors
at (ISC)2 from 2012 until 2014 and Chairperson of that Board in 2014.