  - [OWASP Netherland Wiki](Netherlands "wikilink")
    [All OWASP NL Events
    2013](Netherlands_Previous_Events_2013 "wikilink")

# March 7, 2013

**Incident Respons in a Cyberwar context and Responsible Disclosure**

  -
    This chaptermeeting will be about Incident respons in a cyberwar
    context and responsible disclosure.

## Programme:

  -
    18:30 - 19:00 Registration
    19:00 - 19:15 Welcome & Updates
    19:15 - 20:00 Incident Respons in a Cyberwar context - Dennis
    Lemckert
    20:00 - 20:15 Break
    20:15 - 21:00 Disclosure - Lex Borger & André Koot

## Presentations:

### Incident Respons in a Cyberwar context

Cyber Warfare is the new buzz in the IT security. However, is War to
compare with today's interconnected world? Are breaches in Integrity,
Continuity and Exclusivity similar to an attack on a state?

### Disclosure, Prevention is better than to cure

In this presentation we explain what the background was behind our
request to CPB to perform research of the Diagnostics for U case. We
discuss recent incidents in healthcare (Henk Krol, the Groene Land
Hospital), and the effects of the announcement for the companies
involved. We will also discuss the practice of Responsible Disclosure
(the initiatives of the NCSC and others) and the arise of Responsible
Disclosure (Leak October and other hacks) and how companies can ensure
that information is sufficiently protected against privacy leaks using
data identification and classification.

## Speakers

### Dennis Lemckert

Dennis Lemckert is active in the IT world for almost 20 years. 12 Years
thereof, he's operating in or around the IT security world. Some roles
that at the time he has completed are: Pentester, Security Auditor,
Security Architect, Incident Analyst, Security Analyst and Security
Advisor. During that time, Dennis has developed a no-nonsense approach
on how to build, deliver and maintain secured environments. However,
telling others how to do something well, leaves Dennis little time to
play with the latest and cool tools, so he spends most of his time
writing documentation, both technical and non-technical, giving
awareness training, providing training to both technical staff and
management and analyzing and improving incident processes.

### Lex Borger

Lex Borger is a consultant at Ideas to Interconnect (I-to-I). He has
more than 20 years of experience in information security and system
security. He was involved in the development of control systems, where
he learned to apply security from within. Gradually he broadened his
view of information security to the entire field. Most of his experience
he has gained in the United States of America. Lex is editor of the
journal PvIB "Information"

### André Koot

André Koot's Security Consultant with expertise in Identity Management
and Access Control. He is also editor of the PvIB journal "Information",
trainer and lecturer at the International Management Forum, member EXIN
examination committee, NL Chapter Board member CSA and Advisory Board
member IDentity.Next. Previously, André worked for the IRS, and Unive
VGZ.