  - [OWASP Netherland Wiki](Netherlands "wikilink")
    [All OWASP NL Events
    2013](Netherlands_Previous_Events_2013 "wikilink")

# March 13, 2013

**The Annual OWASP Netherlands Black Hat Edition Chapter meeting**

  -
    Every year around Black Hat Europe we try to get Internationally
    well-known speakers to talk at a Chapter Meeting. This year Colin
    Watson and Georgia Weidman are on the agenda\!
    This chapter-meeting will be about web application logging, Access
    Control Design and the all new OWASP Cornucopia.

## Programme:

  -
    18:30 - 19:15 Registration & Pizza
    19:15 - 19:35 "Record It" - Colin Watson
    19:35 - 19:40 Break
    19:40 - 20:25 “The smartphone penetration testing framework”-
    Georgia Weidman
    20:25 - 20:30 Break
    20:30 - 21:00 OWASP Cornucopia - Colin Watson
    21:00 - 21:30 Networking

## Presentations

### Record It\!

Do you know security event information should be recorded by an
application? Colin Watson will outline which event properties are
useful, what should be avoided and how logging can be implemented. In
this short presentation, the benefits of good application logging will
also be described.

  -
    [Download the presentation as
    PDF](Media:Owaspnl-colinwatson-recordit.pdf "wikilink")

### The smartphone penetration testing framework

As smartphones enter the workplace, sharing the network and accessing
sensitive data, it is crucial to be able to assess the security posture
of these devices in much the same way we perform penetration tests on
workstations and servers. However, smartphones have unique attack
vectors that are not currently covered by available industry tools. The
smartphone penetration testing framework, the result of a DARPA Cyber
Fast Track project, aims to provide an open source toolkit that
addresses the many facets of assessing the security posture of these
devices. We will look at the functionality of the framework including
information gathering, exploitation, social engineering, and post
exploitation through both a traditional IP network and through the
mobile modem, showing how this framework can be leveraged by security
teams and penetration testers to gain an understanding of the security
posture of the smartphones in an organization. We will also show how to
use the framework through a command line console, a graphical user
interface, and a smartphone based app. Demonstrations of the framework
assessing multiple smartphone platforms will be shown.

  -
    [Download the presentation as
    PDF](Media:The_smartphone_penetration_testing_framework-Georgia_Weidman.pdf "wikilink")

### OWASP Cornucopia

Microsoft's Escalation of Privilege (EoP) threat modelling card game has
been refreshed into a new version more suitable for common web
applications, and aligned with OWASP advice and guides. "OWASP
Cornucopia - Ecommerce Web Application Edition" will be presented and
used to demonstrate how it can help developers identify security
requirements from the OWASP Secure Coding Practices - Quick Reference
Guide.

  -
    [Download the presentation as
    PDF](Media:Owaspnl-colinwatson-cornucopia.pdf "wikilink")

## Speakers

### Colin Watson

Colin Watson is an application security consultant, based in London. He
is project leader for the OWASP Codes of Conduct and OWASP Cornucopia
projects, wrote the Application Logging Cheat sheet, contributes to a
number of other OWASP projects including AppSensor,and is a member of
the OWASP Global Industry Committee.

### Georgia Weidman

Georgia Weidman is a penetration tester, security researcher, and
trainer. She holds a Master of Science degree in computer science,
secure software engineering, and information security as well as holding
CISSP, CEH, NIST 4011, and OSCP certifications. Her work in the field of
smartphone exploitation has been featured in print and on television
internationally. She has presented her research at conferences around
the world including Shmoocon, Hacker Halted, Security Zone, and Bsides.
Georgia has delivered highly technical security training for
conferences, schools, and corporate clients to excellent reviews.
Building on her experience, Georgia recently founded Bulb Security LLC
(http://www.bulbsecurity.com), a security consulting firm specializing
in security assessments/penetration testing, security training, and
research/development. She was awarded a DARPA Cyber Fast Track grant to
continue her work in mobile device security.