  - [OWASP Netherland Wiki](Netherlands "wikilink")
    [All OWASP NL Events
    2015](Netherlands_Previous_Events_2015 "wikilink")

# October 15th, 2015

Registration:
<http://owasp-netherlands-chapter-meeting-20151015.eventbrite.nl>

## Venue

  - Fontys Hogeschool ICT

Building R1, Room 3.46

  -
    Rachelsmolen 1
    5612 MA Eindhoven

## Programme:

  -
    18:00 - 18:45 Registration & Pizzas
    18:45 - 19:00 OWASP Netherland and Foundation Updates
    19:00 - 19:45 OWASP Proactive Controls - Jim Manico
    19:45 - 20:00 break
    20:00 - 20:45 OAuth (and more) - Jim Manico
    21:00 - 21:30 Networking

## Presentations

### OWASP Proactive Controls

The OWASP Top Ten Proactive Controls is a list of security techniques
that should be included in every software development project. They are
ordered by order of importance, with control number 1 being the most
important. This document was written by developers for developers to
assist those new to secure development.

  - Project Wiki:\[OWASP_Proactive_Controls\]
  - [OWASP Proactive Controls Wiki](OWASP_Proactive_Controls "wikilink")
  - [Download the presentation as
    PDF](Media:OWASP_Proactive_Controls_v1.pdf "wikilink")

### OAuth

OAuth is a new kind of security protocol. It's used for delegating
various features from one service to another on behalf of your users.
OAuth intersects with authentication and access control, let would not
likely use OAuth in and of itself for authentication, session management
or an access control in your applications. Even more confusing, OAuth is
not in an of itself a standard and various service providers will likely
have different implementations. Let's say it again, OAuth is not a
standard - its a framework for delegation. So this leaves us with
questions\! What really is delegation? Where does OAuth fit in? How can
I use OAuth in a secure fashion? These questions and more will me
answered in this talk\!

  - [Download the presentation as
    PDF](Media:OWASP-NL_Chapter_Meeting201501015_OAuth_Jim_Manico.pdf "wikilink")

## Speakers

### Jim Manico

Jim Manico is the founder of Manicode Security where he trains software
developers on secure coding and security engineering. He is also the
founder of Brakeman Security, Inc. and is a investor/advisor for Signal
Sciences. Jim is a frequent speaker on secure software practices and is
a member of the JavaOne rockstar speaker community. Jim is also a Global
Board Member for the OWASP foundation where he helps drive the strategic
vision for the organization. He is the author of "Iron-Clad Java:
Building Secure Web Applications" from McGraw-Hill. For more
information, see <http://www.linkedin.com/in/jmanico>