  - [OWASP Netherland Wiki](Netherlands "wikilink")
    [All OWASP NL Events
    2015](Netherlands_Previous_Events_2015 "wikilink")

# March 19th, 2015

Registration:
<https://www.eventbrite.nl/e/tickets-owasp-netherlands-chapter-meeting-march-19th-2015-15972952531>

## Venue

  - Kroonjuweel
    :DDK E0.02
    Duivendrechtsekade 36-38
    1096 AH Amsterdam

[Click here for directions,
HvA](http://www.hva.nl/over-de-hva/locaties/content/hva-locaties/kroonjuweel.html)

## Programme:

  -
    18:30 - 19:00 Registration & Sandwiches
    19:00 - 19:15 OWASP Netherland and Foundation Updates
    19:15 - 20:00 OWASP AppSec-Eu/Research May 19th to 22nd 2015 -
    Martin Knobloch
    20:00 - 20:15 Break
    20:15 - 21:00 Applying static analysis - Daan Raman, Matias Madou
    20:45 - 21:30 Networking

## Presentations

### OWASP AppSec-Eu/Research May 19th to 22nd 2015

Preview of the AppSec-Eu/Research conference, May 19th to 22nd.

### Applying static analysis

by Daan Raman, Matias Madou Where architectural analysis finds flaws
(design) in the application, static analysis is an excellent way of
weeding out the bugs (implementation). However, static analysis is
neither trivial from a theoretical nor from a practical perspective. In
this session, we will discuss the theory behind static analysis as well
as how to tune static analysis in such way that the solution becomes an
excellent way to weed out security bugs in your organization.

## Speakers

### Daan Raman

Daan Raman works at NVISO, where he is responsible for R\&D. His core
activities consist of technical research with a current focus on
application security for mobile systems. Using the results obtained
during the team's R\&D activities, Daan also ensures the software
security assessments at NVISO are executed according to the last known
attack methods and vectors.

Outside of his professional activities, Daan has been an active member
of the technical security community for several year, attending and
presenting at conferences, as well as developing software.

### Matias Madou

Matias has over a decade of hands-on software security experience. From
the research to improve existing solutions to scoping and providing the
vision for new solutions. A dozen patents and a bunch of papers are the
result of the fundamental research that eventually led to a hand full of
commercial products.
Matias works for NVISO, a boutique information security consulting firm
located in Brussels. He holds a Ph.D. in computer engineering from Ghent
University, where he studied application security through program
obfuscation to hide the inner workings of an application. Matias spoke
at conferences including RSA Conference, BlackHat and DefCon.