  - [OWASP Netherland Wiki](Netherlands "wikilink")
    [All OWASP NL Events
    2015](Netherlands_Previous_Events_2015 "wikilink")

# April 30th, 2015

Registration: [click here to
register](https://www.eventbrite.nl/e/tickets-owasp-netherlands-chapter-meeting-april-30th-2015-16376286915)

## Venue

  - UWV Hoofdkantoor
    :room 'Het Plein', 23rd floor
    :La Guardiaweg 116-162
    : Gebouw D
    : 1040 HG Amsterdam

[Click here for directions,
UWV](http://www.uwv.nl/particulieren/Images/Amsterdam%20La%20Guardia.pdf)

## Programme:

  -
    18:30 - 19:00 Registration & Sandwiches
    19:00 - 19:15 OWASP Netherland and Foundation Updates
    19:15 - 20:00 CIP and SecureSoftwareDevelopment (Dutch), Ad Kint and
    Marcel Koers
    20:00 - 20:15 Break
    20:15 - 21:00 The state of apps - from an eavesdropper's
    perspective, David Vaartjes and Yorick Koster
    20:45 - 21:30 Networking

## Presentations

### CIP and SecureSoftwareDevelopment: (Dutch)

Ad Kint and Marcel Koers will talk about CIP, Centrum
Informatiebeveiliging en privacybescherming
(http://www.cip-overheid.nl/) and the Secure Softwared Development
(SSD):

  -
    Sinds medio 2012 is het CIP actief als samenwerkingsplatform voor
    security binnen de overheid. Een flink aantal overheidorganisaties
    delen en ontwikkelen kennis op het gebied van informatiebeveiliging
    en privacybescherming. Een aantal markpartijen is aangesloten als
    kennispartner. Binnen de CIP-samenwerking is een aanpak ontwikkeld
    om de genoemde problemen het hoofd te bieden, met als resultaat de
    methode 'Grip op secure sofware development'.

Deze methode beschrijft hoe een opdrachtgever grip krijgt op het (laten)
ontwikkelen van goed beveiligde software. De drie pijlers daarbij zijn
standaard beveiligingseisen, contactmomenten en het inrichten van de
juiste processen.

  - Tijdens deze presentatie zullen de volgende punten worden
    besproken:
    CIP privaat/publieke netwerkorganisatie
    Aanleiding SSD
    SSD het proces
    SSD de beveiligingsnormen

<!-- end list -->

  - [Download the presentation as
    PDF](Media:OWASP-NL_Chapter_Meeting20150430_CIP_and_SecureSoftwareDevelopment.pdf "wikilink")

### The state of apps - from an eavesdropper's perspective:

We live in a mobile world, where we carry our most private data along on
mobile devices. In the same time, surveillance is getting more intense
than ever before. Do the apps we trust with our data handle it
responsibly? For example, do they protect our data when send out on the
network?
Missing or broken SSL can put your app’s users at great risk, allowing
avesdroppers to read or change everything we send and receive. Even
worse, if apps expose vulnerable WebView components as well, attackers
can exploit missing or broken SSL to take over your device\!
During this talk David Vaartjes & Yorick Koster will explain both issues
in detail, and demonstrate how we exploited such issues to remotely take
over an Android, steal your pictures, record video or even upload
certain files that might raise hard questions from your wife.
They will also touch on recent research in which 1000 Dutch, and various
popular global Android apps were checked on such issues. This research
resulted in some disturbing figures and a large number of security
updates pushed by companies like Adobe, Microsoft, Viber and Amazon.
Together affecting over 500.000.000 devices all around the globe.

  - [Download the presentation as
    PDF](Media:OWASP-NL_Chapter_Meeting20150430_the_state_of_apps.pdf "wikilink")

## Speakers

### Ad Kint

Ad is werkt de laatste 15 jaar bij het UWV en heeft afwisselend
management rollen en project-/programmanagement rollen ingevuld. De
laatste 2 jaar werkt hij voor het Centrum voor informatiebeveiliging en
privacy en organiseert hij de samenwerkingsverbanden met bijbehorende
“events”. Hij heeft informatie- en organisatiekunde gestudeerd en is
van oorsprong Zeeuws-Vlaming\!

### Marcel Koers

Marcel is enterprise architect bij het CIP en auteur van de CIP
producten “Grip op de beveiliging in inkoopcontracten” en “Grip op SSD”.
Marcel is voormalig CISO van het UWV en stond aan de basis van de eerste
referentiearchitectuur in Nederland. Daarnaast heeft hij een grote
verscheidenheid van aanbestedingen gerealiseerd. Hij werkt een 15 jaar
voor het UWV. Voor deze periode was hij hoofd ICT bij Defensie.

### David Vaartjes

David is co-founder of Securify, an Amsterdam based software security
company with a strong focus on testing/securing mobile, web and desktop
applications. In his early years he worked as a security testing
consultant for a large number of (mainly Dutch) organisations in varying
industries. After that, he joined Rabobank where he worked on installing
a process and team for internal (Agile) security testing. There he spend
most of his time working with the mobile & web internet banking teams on
assuring software security throughout the full development life cycle.

### Yorick Koster

Yorick is co-founder of Securify, an Amsterdam based software security
company with a strong focus on testing/securing mobile, web and desktop
applications. For over a decade, Yorick has engaged in a large number of
security assessments at clients in varying industries.
Yorick is a true enthusiast of the build security in approach. Working
close with software development teams who are facing todays security
challenges. By getting involved early in the development life cycle,