## OWASP Northern New Jersey

Chapter Leaders

Tom Brennan

Evin Hernandez

2017 Appointed Organizers - [Click
Here](https://www.meetup.com/owaspnycnj/members/?op=leaders)

## Participation

OWASP Foundation ([Overview
Slides](https://docs.google.com/a/owasp.org/presentation/d/10wi1EWFCPZwCpkB6qZaBNN8mR2XfQs8sLxcj9SCsP6c/edit?usp=sharing))
is a professional association of [global members](Membership "wikilink")
and is open to anyone interested in learning more about software
security. Local chapters are run independently and guided by the
[Chapter_Leader_Handbook](Chapter_Leader_Handbook "wikilink"). As a
[501(c)(3)](About_OWASP "wikilink") non-profit professional association
your support and sponsorship of any meeting venue and/or refreshments is
tax-deductible. Financial contributions should only be made online using
the authorized online chapter donation button. To be a <b>SPEAKER</b> at
ANY OWASP Chapter in the world simply review the [speaker
agreement](Speaker_Agreement "wikilink") and then contact the local
chapter leader with details of what OWASP PROJECT, independent research
or related software security topic you would like to present on.

## Upcoming Events 2017

The local chapter hosts many meetings, events, seminars, training and
virtual sessions. Click below to participate in the next one by RSVP'ing
in advance of the event.

<h2>

[<https://www.owasp.org/images/8/82/Meetup_logo3.jpg>](https://www.meetup.com/owaspnycnj/)
[New York City | New Jersey Schedule of
Events](https://www.meetup.com/owaspnyc/) - [Click Here More
Info](https://www.meetup.com/nymjcsc/)

</h2>

Please note that venues typically have building security and may have
several hundred people in attendance. Due to this fact, please ensure
that you register with your first name and last name or you may be
refused entry to the facility by the building. in NYC and New Jersey do
require you to register with your first and last name or you may be
refused entry to the building.

Ready to become a member?
![Join_Now_BlueIcon.JPG](Join_Now_BlueIcon.JPG
"Join_Now_BlueIcon.JPG") -- Local Sponsorship opportunities [Click
Here](https://www.owasp.org/images/b/ba/NYC_Chapter_Sponsorship.pdf)

[Category:OWASP Chapter](Category:OWASP_Chapter "wikilink")
[Category:OWASP Chapter](Category:OWASP_Chapter "wikilink")
[Category:United States](Category:United_States "wikilink")
[Category:New York](Category:New_York "wikilink")