Meeting Location:

**VIRTUAL**

<https://www3.gotomeeting.com/join/861328838>

[International Toll Free Calling
Information](International_Toll_Free_Calling_Information "wikilink")

**AGENDA** This is the VIRTUAL packet that is provided to everyone at
the same time to review, make comments and be prepared for the meeting.
There is no paper handout for the meeting.

`CALL TO ORDER`

\- Chairman Report

\- Officers Reports

`CHANGES TO THE AGENDA`

FINAL CALL members of the public for additional items or changes to the
proposed agenda. All members of the organization or public will be
provided 2 mins to make statements to the board about new business or
comments. If a action is requested such as a motion and a vote, the
member should get in contact with a board member PRIOR to the meeting so
that this can be introduced on the agenda.

Board members should have posted items (5) days in advance of the board
meeting to provide others ample time to review the materials in advance
and be ready.

`APPROVAL OF MINUTES`

\- Review and approval of prior [prior meeting
mins](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1kWXZad23VgqiQ6urtzRofUlE5sfBywstReEL3WtJpUg/edit?usp=sharing)

`REPORTS`

\- Staff Action / Accountability Monthly Report

OWASP Foundation is managed by the [Operations
Director](https://www.owasp.org/index.php/About_OWASP#Employees_and_Contractors)
who provides a monthly roll-up report in collaboration of all staff
members, contractors and efforts being manged by the [back office
team.](https://www.owasp.org/index.php/About_OWASP#Employees_and_Contractors)
A link to the monthly operational report can be found here:
[REPORT](http://owasp.blogspot.com/2017/01/owasp-operations-update-for-january-2017.html)

`OLD BUSINESS`

\- [Project
workflow](https://www.owasp.org/index.php/Category:OWASP_Project#tab=Starting_a_New_Project)
(Tracking / Reporting / Management)

`NEW BUSINESS`

\- Members/Public comments

\-- Sophie Barry GDPR for OWASP --
[Article](https://www.theguardian.com/voluntary-sector-network/2017/may/05/gdpr-charities-prepare-eu-data-protection-changes-consent-fundraising)

\-- Andrew van der Stock - Fix Project Balance for the OWASP SAMM
project (added by Seba)

  - The project asks for the return 3677.22 USD to the SAMM project
    funds removed on 2-Jan-2017.
  - see email
    <http://lists.owasp.org/pipermail/owasp-board/2017-October/018357.html>
    (see attachment)

\-- Matt Tesauro - Summits attached to Global AppSec conferences

  - AppSec EU (Tel Aviv) - venue is already booked - likely not to have
    availability for add a summit to this event with the runway we have
    left.
  - Assumption is that any Summit attached to a Global AppSec conference
    will be at AppSec USA 2018 at the earliest and new ED can determine
    logistical specifics

\-- Budget for 2018 \[Konda\]

\-- Goals for 2018 \[Konda\]

`COMMENTS, ANNOUNCEMENTS, AND OTHER BUSINESS`

\- OCMS Status / [Upcoming
events](https://www.owasp.org/index.php/Category:OWASP_AppSec_Conference)

\- Update Executive Director Search

\- Update Senior Technical Project Coordinator

\- The Project Summit in London is once again set very close to AppSec
Eu. This hurt attendance in Belfast and will surly be detrimental to our
fundraising efforts at AppSec Europe 2018.
![2017_calendar_london_summit_Appse_eu.png](2017_calendar_london_summit_Appse_eu.png
"2017_calendar_london_summit_Appse_eu.png")

`ADJOURNMENT`

\#\# Executive Session - Closed to the PUBLIC to start after a (5) min
break of the end of the member/public board meeting.

Purpose: <http://www.nonprofitlawblog.com/executive-session-tips/>