## Dial In Info

### Notice of Recording

  - Notice to all attendees - board meetings are recorded and publicly
    available as of March, 2013
  - Joining the call acknowledges your awareness of recording and
    consent to be recorded and public dissemination of the recording.
  - [Recording of 25 September 2015 OWASP Board
    Meeting](https://www.dropbox.com/s/3r1kvgds37667sb/2015-09-25%2018.23%20OWASP%20Board%20Meeting.wmv?dl=0)
  - [Recording of 14 October 2015 OWASP Board
    Meeting](https://www.dropbox.com/s/0itybmbgcj294hk/2015-10-14%2014.03%20OWASP%20Board%20Meeting.wmv?dl=0)
  - [Recording of 4 November 2015 OWASP Board
    Meeting](https://www.dropbox.com/s/lv74pa8zzc5wo8x/2015-11-04%2012.05%20OWASP%20Board%20Meeting.wmv?dl=0)
  - [Recording of 18 November 2015 OWASP Board
    meeting](https://www.dropbox.com/s/igda9wsw0cp8nxt/2015-11-18%2014.09%20OWASP%20Board%20Meeting.wmv?dl=0)

### Time

  - November 18 OWASP Board meeting, Start-time is 14:00 - 15:30 PST
  - Start-Time adjusted for Daylight Savings time end. View
    www.timeanddate.com/worldclock to confirm

### Location

**Teleconference Information:**

<https://www3.gotomeeting.com/join/861328838>

[International Toll Free Calling
Information](International_Toll_Free_Calling_Information "wikilink")

### Attendance Tracker

**[Board Meeting Attendance
Tracker](https://docs.google.com/a/owasp.org/spreadsheet/ccc?key=0ApZ9zE0hx0LNdG5uRzNYZE8ycDFabnBWNkU4SFpwREE)**

### Meeting Minutes

  - [18 November 2015 OWASP Board Meeting
    Minutes](https://docs.google.com/a/owasp.org/document/d/1O4GSk2h1WiDp-PrUmeAMS4f8dByiHEgcaPAEuwix0OA/edit?usp=sharing)
  - [4 November 2015 OWASP Board Meeting
    Minutes](https://docs.google.com/a/owasp.org/document/d/1ElsinXPudIlzpdTBvir9l4VWwodlIG6XR3LjF_Ap9ns/edit?usp=sharing)
  - [14 October 2015 OWASP Board Meeting
    Minutes](https://docs.google.com/a/owasp.org/document/d/1iun7xfeJI9vU0rEbIoix46ge1h_kQ_3WqeAG8e2ctPs/edit?usp=sharing)

# Reading Material

***It is a requirement as a board member to fully read all material
prior to the start of the meeting***

[Financial Summary 2015 + Forecast for 2016 Updated
Nov.18](https://www.dropbox.com/s/os38k6zjgnd2pzi/OWASP%20Sept2015%20Finance%20report%26CashFlow.pptx?dl=0)

  - [Inclusion
    Initiative](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1dOzGvMbF_4vRWN1AoYPNfj8UCC-qR1hZUm2f79a0Ohc/edit)
    (Matt, 10min)

  - [Developer Outreach
    Initiative](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1KWTChGVzcw2lZopod5xLWWS4Ux9_5wIAPYMU3DBMPRE/edit)
    (Matt, 10min)

  -
  - [Tom B Ideas on Strategic Goals
    for 2016](https://docs.google.com/a/owasp.org/document/d/18voQhwPYWVR1uokKVWH9h0qEri-wu0f0kWrGu8oL7WQ/edit?usp=sharing)

# Meeting Agenda

## Call to Order /OWASP Mission

  - (5 minutes) - Administrative (List of attendees and Agenda bashing
    (only if last-minute changes to the agenda are needed)

Discussion Topics

  - (30 minutes) - 2016 Strategic Goals
      - Top 3-4 Project Priorities?
      - Project Summits: Multi-Day, or Standalone event
      - Training/Education:
      - Advocacy & Liaison:
      - Any modification to 2015 Goals for Chapter / Events / Outreach?
      - What investment in International events /Chapters? AppSec China,
        LATAM Tour, AppSec India, etc.

<!-- end list -->

  - (30 minutes) - 2016 Budget Priorities based on Goals
      - Update on Project & Chapter Level Budgeting - Paul
      - Board recommendations on Funding allocations per goal

<!-- end list -->

  - From Andrew email of Nov. 12: His recommendations

AppSec India Seed.

I would like to set aside $25k for an AppSec India seed. This might need
to be extended to a larger amount once actual planning takes place and a
venue and size estimated. We would most likely get this back or better,
so revenue neutral at worst, profitable at best.

Pros: Core to our mission, only draw down if India chapters get
planning. Cons: None.

OWASP Infrastructure Transformation

From Matt Tesuaro's briefing to us earlier this year, I believe we have
a lot of technical debt in OWASP's sprawling and basically unmanaged
infrastructure. If we don't have a good handle on our information
assets, we will lose them. I believe as part of a wider program of
works, we need to contract Matt's time as a project where this is his
day job for a while, first by taking a full inventory of assets, making
a recommendation for rolling all like systems into one, and making
recommendations like the MailMan upgrade / migration project.

Pros: Will drive out costs in subsequent years. Will increase the
effectiveness of Matt's time to look after only a smaller number of more
critical systems. Allows us to do things we can't do today. Cons: will
likely cost a bit. I would like to say 2-3 months of Matt's time, which
we would need to price out and make sure that we have a clear
understanding of achievable outcomes.

Project Summits

I would like to put forward a proposal that could take a fair chunk of
change. I would like us to put $25k x 2 to be made available to AppSec
EU and AppSec US, to allow a week long project summit, prior to the
actual conferences. Projects would bid for some of the cash for travel
expenses, where we favor locals with lower costs over far flung remote
costs.

I would like us to make it clear that folks can participate in a
sponsorship drive for the Project Summit to top up these funds.

Pros: Core to our mission that we work on projects. Cons: Would need to
make sure that projects are chosen based upon need or strategic
significance to OWASP, such as previous Flagship projects who need a lot
of TLC to get back into the good books.

## Reports

  - Postponed until December meeting to allow full focus Nov. 18 on
    Goals & Budget discussion

### Community Initiative Reports

## Old Business

All active board proposals are listed
[here](https://drive.google.com/folderview?id=0BxSfMVkfLvslVXdvUFV3NkxucWc&usp=sharing)

## New Business

All active board proposals are listed
[here](https://drive.google.com/folderview?id=0BxSfMVkfLvslVXdvUFV3NkxucWc&usp=sharing)

## Action Items

  -
## Announcements

## Adjournment

  - Next meeting date/time:

## Motion to close meeting