Meeting Date: November 21, 2018

Meeting Time: 12:00 PM to 1:30 PM EST ([time
zones](https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/meetingdetails.html?year=2018&month=11&day=21&hour=17&min=0&sec=0&p1=179&p2=24&p3=16&p4=136&p5=224))

Meeting Location: Virtual

Address: N/A

<s>Virtual: <https://www3.gotomeeting.com/join/861328838></s> New
Meeting: <https://global.gotomeeting.com/join/256229429>

[International Toll Free Calling
Info](International_Toll_Free_Calling_Information "wikilink")

[Meeting
recording](https://drive.google.com/a/owasp.org/file/d/1KpYhBBxo8ZKNeH1D9SbL6BRotGVPyHpS/view?usp=sharing)

`AGENDA`

`CALL TO ORDER`

`CHANGES TO THE AGENDA`

`APPROVAL OF MINUTES`

Previous meeting minutes: [2018-10-10 meeting
minutes](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1p4zVQPne5oITUckHZD6q3UGx3az4q8_YQLDmyn-UTA4/edit?usp=sharing)

`REPORTS`

Financial Reports: [Board
Summary](https://drive.google.com/a/owasp.org/file/d/0Bzb3QwFMHCXrbXc2NFVUZXB6Z1ZSeTNPclh4QmZ0aVY0Zmg0/view?usp=sharing)
and [Balance
Sheet](https://drive.google.com/a/owasp.org/file/d/0Bzb3QwFMHCXrR1k1anlQMHExX29iYTZITnRveEY3eEhxbkVR/view?usp=sharing)
(Tom P)

Director of Community and Operations Report and Updates (Matt T)

  - [Status report for Nov 2018 board
    meeting](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1Lxo9fG6E3EOsJ6Bt0c_QJgDQWZGygN3CNUbBHnlJFHY/edit?usp=sharing)
  - [Draft Job Description for Director of Conferences and
    Events](https://docs.google.com/document/d/19arizQd78VQy0umW2kXEkKXBxO6kIsdoOJ5NutMbG4w/edit?usp=sharing)
  - [Draft Job Description for Executive
    Director](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1pUYdWkzoxieXr2qAhCuAY2hwmUbeiaWrdng2JVr9USI/edit?usp=sharing)

`OLD BUSINESS`

`NEW BUSINESS`

**<u>Motions</u>**

  - **Compliance Committee Changes** -
    <https://docs.google.com/document/d/1OSm7Vu5iuE-Uu-iOTjD7XhEXQqwDN_ZJ7jOOYqoiCzo/edit?usp=sharing>
    - Greg (added on this Months Agenda by Sherif)
  - **Board Eligibility** -
    <https://docs.google.com/document/d/1a_adkVd5xL14Gg-Dwoeyg_bTDA3t8y2puy25AYyVQ8s/edit>
    - Greg - **Old Document NOT to BE VOTED ON**
    <https://docs.google.com/document/d/1FO_Ob62LwVZHXA9qtDoNSfmMB6u9PZZHpG2RJcL7e-w/edit>
  - **OWASP Global Committees 2.0 Changes** -
    [<https://docs.google.com/document/d/1yw8KQoQ0SVbvP9nRsW52yYGJUuu-qAgi5HlNktBScIo>](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1yw8KQoQ0SVbvP9nRsW52yYGJUuu-qAgi5HlNktBScIo/edit)
    - Owen (added on this Months Agenda by Sherif)

**<u>Discussions:</u>**

  - **Treasury** - 2018 Remaining Action Items:
      - Request for the foundation to provide Accountants with
        Merchandise Inventory.
      - Request for the foundation to finalize the accounts receivables.
  - **Global/Local Events Splits:** We need establish a roadmap on how
    to get from a few proposed ideas to an actionable motion that has
    been discussed with the community to vote on and enact. **\*Note:**
    From the last leaders meeting the emerging consensus from the
    community is for regional events to have multiple splits (e.g. 90/10
    - 80/20 - 70/30) with different packages/support levels from the
    foundation.
  - **2019 Strategy + Budget:** Given Karen's departure we need to pick
    up where we left of and agree on it no later than End of January

`COMMENTS, ANNOUNCEMENTS, AND OTHER BUSINESS`

`ADJOURNMENT`