## OWASP New York City | Northern New Jersey

Chapter Leaders

[Tom Brennan](mailto:tomb@owasp.org) [Evin
Hernandez](mailto:evin.hernandez@owasp.org)

OWASP Foundation is a 501(c)3 Not for Profit association with local and
[global members](Membership "wikilink") and is open to anyone interested
in learning more about software security. Local chapters are run
independently and guided by the
[Chapter_Leader_Handbook](Chapter_Leader_Handbook "wikilink"). As a
[501(c)(3)](About_OWASP "wikilink") non-profit professional association
your support and sponsorship of any meeting venue and/or refreshments is
tax-deductible. Financial contributions should only be made online using
the authorized online chapter donation button. To be a <b>SPEAKER</b> at
ANY OWASP Chapter in the world simply review the [speaker
agreement](Speaker_Agreement "wikilink") and then contact the local
chapter leader with details of what OWASP PROJECT, independent research
or related software security topic you would like to present on.

## Upcoming Events

The local chapter currently uses a meet-up site for posting information
about upcoming events etc.. click below to have a look of what is coming
up when and where in the New York City / Northern New Jersey Metro
region.

<h2>

[<https://www.owasp.org/images/8/82/Meetup_logo3.jpg>](https://www.meetup.com/owaspnycnj/)
[New York City | Northern New Jersey Schedule of
Events](https://www.meetup.com/owaspnyc/) - [Click Here More
Info](https://www.meetup.com/owaspnyc/)

</h2>

Please note that venues typically have building security and may have
several hundred people in attendance. Due to this fact, please ensure
that you register with your first name and last name or you may be
refused entry to the facility by the building. in NYC and New Jersey do
require you to register with your first and last name or you may be
refused entry to the building.

Ready to become a member?
![Join_Now_BlueIcon.JPG](Join_Now_BlueIcon.JPG
"Join_Now_BlueIcon.JPG") -- Local Sponsorship opportunities [Click
Here](https://www.owasp.org/images/b/ba/NYC_Chapter_Sponsorship.pdf)

{{\#widget:PayPal Donation |target=_blank |budget=OWASP NYC }}

[Category:OWASP Chapter](Category:OWASP_Chapter "wikilink")
[Category:OWASP Chapter](Category:OWASP_Chapter "wikilink")
[Category:United States](Category:United_States "wikilink")
[Category:New York](Category:New_York "wikilink")