__NOTOC__

This is an automated threat. To view all automated threats, please see
the [Automated Threat Category](:Category:Automated_Threat "wikilink")
page. The OWASP Automated Threat Handbook - Wed Applications
([pdf](https://www.owasp.org/index.php/File:Automated-threat-handbook.pdf),
print), an output of the [OWASP Automated Threats to Web Applications
Project](OWASP_Automated_Threats_to_Web_Applications "wikilink"),
provides a fuller guide to each threat, detection methods and
countermeasures. The [threat identification
chart](https://www.owasp.org/index.php/File:Oat-ontology-decision-chart.pdf)
helps to correctly identify the automated threat.

## Definition

### OWASP Automated Threat (OAT) Identity Number

OAT-014

### Threat Event Name

Vulnerability Scanning

### Summary Defining Characteristics

Crawl and fuzz application to identify weaknesses and possible
vulnerabilities.

### Indicative Diagram

![OAT-014_Vulnerability_Scanning.png](OAT-014_Vulnerability_Scanning.png
"OAT-014_Vulnerability_Scanning.png")

### Description

Systematic enumeration and examination of identifiable, guessable and
unknown content locations, paths, file names, parameters, in order to
find weaknesses and points where a security vulnerability might exist.
Vulnerability Scanning includes both malicious scanning and friendly
scanning by an authorised vulnerability scanning engine. It differs from
[OAT-011 Scraping](OAT-011_Scraping "wikilink") in that its aim is to
identify potential vulnerabilities.

The exploitation of individual vulnerabilities is not included in the
scope of this ontology, but this process of scanning, along with
[OAT-018 Footprinting](OAT-018_Footprinting "wikilink"), [OAT-004
Fingerprinting](OAT-004_Fingerprinting "wikilink") and [OAT-011
Scraping](OAT-011_Scraping "wikilink") often form part of application
penetration testing.

### Other Names and Examples

Active/Passive scanning; Application-specific vulnerability discovery;
Identifying vulnerable content management systems (CMS) and CMS
components; Known vulnerability scanning; Malicious crawling;
Vulnerability reconnaissance

### See Also

  - [OAT-004 Fingerprinting](OAT-004_Fingerprinting "wikilink")
  - [OAT-011 Scraping](OAT-011_Scraping "wikilink")
  - [OAT-018 Footprinting](OAT-018_Footprinting "wikilink")

## Cross-References

### CAPEC Category / Attack Pattern IDs

  - \-

### CWE Base / Class / Variant IDs

  - 799 Improper Control of Interaction Frequency

### WASC Threat IDs

  - 21 Insufficient Anti-Automation

### OWASP Attack Category / Attack IDs

  - \-

[Category: Automated Threat](Category:_Automated_Threat "wikilink")