### Time

  - Date/Time: October 11, 1800 EST [TimeZone
    Converter](http://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/meetingdetails.html?year=2016&month=10&day=11&hour=22&min=0&sec=0&p1=224&p2=24&p3=263&p4=78&p5=37&p6=102&p7=152)

### Location

**Teleconference Information:**

<https://www3.gotomeeting.com/join/861328838>

[International Toll Free Calling
Information](International_Toll_Free_Calling_Information "wikilink")

### Attendance Tracker

**[Board Meeting Attendance
Tracker](https://docs.google.com/a/owasp.org/spreadsheet/ccc?key=0ApZ9zE0hx0LNdG5uRzNYZE8ycDFabnBWNkU4SFpwREE)**

### Notice of Recording

  - Notice to all attendees - board meetings are recorded and publicly
    available as of March, 2013
  - Joining the call acknowledges your awareness of recording and
    consent to be recorded and public dissemination of the recording.

### Meeting Minutes

  -

      -
        \- [September meeting
        minutes](https://docs.google.com/a/owasp.org/document/d/119FJ2G2EdsVnz8vnxWv0Ee0G3uWMTSVqyxt_1CVrHiY/edit?usp=sharing)

# Reading Material

***It is a requirement as a board member to fully read all material
prior to the start of the meeting***

  - Financial statement

<!-- end list -->

  -

      -
        \- [Analysis by Tom Pappas on YTD to
        September 30, 2016](https://docs.google.com/a/owasp.org/document/d/1lKioxigkjwWZhRQNPkCxXA68QOV7pOe9yyDx7NSgplI/edit?usp=sharing)
        \- [September financial
        package](https://docs.google.com/a/owasp.org/document/d/1lKioxigkjwWZhRQNPkCxXA68QOV7pOe9yyDx7NSgplI/edit?usp=sharing)

<!-- end list -->

  - FY 17 Corporate Sponsorship Rates

<!-- end list -->

  -

      -
        \- [Increase corporate sponsorship
        levels](https://docs.google.com/a/owasp.org/document/d/1uleQULAICpNG-B1pzI7vKhuydctof4pn8s--PbB96-0/edit?usp=sharing)

# Meeting Agenda

## Call to Order /OWASP Mission

  - Administrative: List of attendees and Agenda bashing (only if
    last-minute changes to the agenda are needed) (5 min)

## Reports

### Chair's Report - Matt Konda

  - Developer Summit
  - Bill Approvals, Taxes, Staff Meetings
  - OWASP Glue Project

### Vice Chair's Report - Josh Sokol

TBA

### Treasurer Report - Andrew van der Stock

  - Financial statement

<!-- end list -->

  -

      -
        \- [Analysis by Tom Pappas on YTD to
        September 30, 2016](https://docs.google.com/a/owasp.org/document/d/1lKioxigkjwWZhRQNPkCxXA68QOV7pOe9yyDx7NSgplI/edit?usp=sharing)
        \- [September financial
        package](https://docs.google.com/a/owasp.org/document/d/1lKioxigkjwWZhRQNPkCxXA68QOV7pOe9yyDx7NSgplI/edit?usp=sharing)

Based on this information, we are likely to have a reasonable year as
long as income is realized in the FY16 financial year. We were looking
at about a $150k loss for FY16, and it's currently looking at around
$30k loss, which might even improve on that depending on the final
training, sponsorship and ticket sales of AppSec USA, and getting on top
of our aged receivables, which I believe is a prioritization thing
rather than structural.

I am due to meet Tom Pappas on Tuesday during the day. If you want to be
a part of the FY 17 budget, please come along - I welcome both existing
Board and Board candidates to this discussion. As we are likely to have
a near non-profit year, I will be holding the line on unbudgeted
expenses if I am re-elected and if the Board will continue to have me as
treasurer in 2017. For those Board members with a big project or
initiative NOW is the time to get your initiative funded or wait until
2018.

Chapter funds continue to increase. As previously agreed in December
2015's board meeting, I will be sweeping unbudgeted funds from chapters
in December 2016. This should become an annual activity to encourage
proper financial planning by our larger chapters. I continue to
encourage chapter leaders to come up with a plan that is strategically
helpful to OWASP's core mission rather than just gold plating their
chapter, such as outreach, funding scholarships at Universities, holding
a local or regional events, encouraging their members to join and fund
on projects of interest to that chapter, and so on. Chapters with a
balance of over $5k should present a budget and plan for their funds by
December 1. I will personally reach out to these 20-30 affected chapters
during October, but would love interested Board members to also help in
this process.

Depending on our profitability and end of year bank balance, I am
leaning towards a hire of the ED in the early part of 2017. We should be
strategic about this role - I personally feel the lack of a financially
savvy ED has held us back in 2016, which is reflected in our likely near
loss if not zero profit for FY16, especially when considering the
financial success of FY15. I encourage the Board to be on the look out
for an ED candidate who has strong non-profit financial management,
grant writing, and fund raising experience to help us jump to the next
level.

Lastly, I will be talking about changes we need to make to bring us into
line with good practice at Charity Navigator. We have hit the benchmark
lower limit, and FY17 is an audit year for 2016, which will appear in
Charity Navigator. If we wish to receive funds from various grant making
organisations, we need to strongly align with these good practices, some
of which are very simple, some of which are less so. The main one is to
make sure it is ultra clear to anyone that our spend on mission is \>
80% of our expenses. I will be discussing this with Tom Pappas on
Tuesday, as it probably means that we need to make sure that staff costs
are allocated to budgets, or demonstrably so. I think we can easily make
these benchmarks depending on our financial treatment of expenses.

### Secretary Report -Tobias Gondrom

Nothing to report

### Updated from Members at Large - Tom Brennan, Michael Coates, and Tobias Gondrom

  - Coates - Chapters

TBA

  - Carter - Governance

TBA

  - Brennan - Projects

\-
[Website](https://docs.google.com/a/owasp.org/document/d/1WO5tH1t1GU9cLqW8iHIaGUANFossid4xFCmKJq7CSSY/edit?usp=sharing)

## Staff Reports

  -   - [Director/Operations
        Update](https://docs.google.com/a/owasp.org/document/d/1I09-fAbNanZ5MizuMQXIERnCOFbDxIoeD3197m3nzFs/edit?usp=sharing)
        - Kate
      - \[TBA Financial Update - Andrew/Tom - See above\]
      - [Event Manager October
        Report](https://docs.google.com/a/owasp.org/document/d/1VYI0GC916LmyT_SIymXDvULyxi0U9gSH3fpNukDfPPQ/edit?usp=sharing)
        - Laura Grau
      - [Project Coordinator
        Update](https://docs.google.com/a/owasp.org/presentation/d/1iKNXTLb1tlJzutSdCz6giHcI6qIr1oQrjHk49pdYWZU/edit?usp=sharing)
        - Claudia Casanovas & Matt Tesauro
      - [Manager
        Report](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1-4fIJfiLa8l02Hf1XBMqRYEiY2z6g4qwln-_ZLQ6GIs/edit%5BCommunity)\]
        - Tiffany Long - TBA
      - [Membership
        Report](https://www.owasp.org/index.php/September_2016_Membership_Report)
        - Kelly Santalucia

## Old Business

All active board proposals are listed
[here](https://drive.google.com/folderview?id=0BxSfMVkfLvslVXdvUFV3NkxucWc&usp=sharing)

  - Motion to approve changes to FY17 membership rates (Andrew)

<!-- end list -->

  -

      -
        \-
        <https://docs.google.com/a/owasp.org/document/d/1RBy7yRl-qVo49lDL1JeKmhwLElcazrJ7tY4OO5Wwb6U/edit?usp=sharing>

## New Business

  - Discussion on FY17 budget with Tom Pappas (up to 45 minutes)

Tom Pappas and AJV will talk you through our budget process and how to
get your budget requests through.

  - Discussion on FY17 strategic goals (also includes Tom Pappas) (up to
    45 minutes)

This will impact our decisions about budget requests

  - Discussion on unbranded chapters receiving funds (Andrew van der
    Stock, 10 minutes)

<!-- end list -->

  - 2017 Virtual AppSec

Example of what we are doing with Mark Miller with [All Day
Devops](http://www.alldaydevops.com/)

We have a number of chapters who hold joint meetings, which is fine, but
for them to receive money, they should be branded as OWASP meetings,
have signed the chapter leader handbook, and are an acknowledged (and
recorded in Salesforce) chapter leader. Otherwise we are funding other
organisations to hold their meetings, or worse set themselves up to
become independent chapters. I'd like to have a discussion with my
fellow Board members to alter the Chapter handbook to ensure that funds
can only be disbursed to branded chapter meetings, with requests coming
from OWASP chapter leaders who have signed the Chapter Leader paperwork.

## Action Items

  - [Motion to approve FY17 corporate sponsorship
    levels](https://docs.google.com/a/owasp.org/document/d/1uleQULAICpNG-B1pzI7vKhuydctof4pn8s--PbB96-0/edit?usp=sharing)
    (Andrew / Kate) (10 minutes)

<!-- end list -->

  - [Motion from Larry Conklin to appoint two independant directors to
    the OWASP
    Board](https://docs.google.com/a/owasp.org/document/d/1oInLPNUQIEd3PLVIVN3LKGeP2ddz5Cb7tdbjH-U2Ckk/edit?usp=sharing)
    (Motion by Larry, sponsored by Andrew van der Stock, 10 mins)

## Announcements

TBA

## Adjournment

  - Next meeting date/time: [November 9 2016 1500-1630
    PST](https://www.owasp.org/index.php?title=November_9,_2016)
    [TimeZone
    Converter](http://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/meetingdetails.html?year=2016&month=11&day=09&hour=23&min=0&sec=0&p1=224&p2=24&p3=263&p4=78&p5=37&p6=102&p7=152)

## Motion to close meeting