**`October``   ``26th``   ``Meeting`**

Atlanta OWASP October Meeting Presents Web Application Assessments

Wednesday October 26th 7:00pm - 8:30pm Vigilar, Inc. - Atlanta, Georgia
900 Ashwood Parkway Suite 290 Atlanta, GA 30338

Directions <http://www.vigilar.com/directions.html> This meeting is open
to public and admission/parking is free.

OWASP Atlanta - our mission as a local chapter of the Open Web
Application Security Project is to help promote awareness and
contributions to web application security.

Who Should Attend - anyone interested in Web Application Security
(managment, security architects, developers, etc)

Please RSVP for this event. Register to OWASP Atlanta mailing list at:
<http://lists.sourceforge.net/lists/listinfo/owasp-atlanta/>

Keynote Speaker Eric Ahlm

Director of Emerging Technologies

Certifications

CISSP Certified Information Systems Security Professional

PMI Project Management Institute

SCSP Symantec Certified Security Professional

Experience Eric Ahlm brings to the company ten years of experience in
information technology, five of which were dedicated to information
security. As Vigilar’s Director of Security Architecture, Ahlm’s primary
role is to evaluate new security technologies and consult with clients
who are looking to solve security challenges. He also runs Vigilar’s
evaluation labs and works with hundreds of security products to find the
best solutions for Vigilar’s clients’ security challenges.

Prior to Vigilar, Ahlm worked for various security consulting firms and
was a Regional Manager for Symantec Worldwide, an information security
firm that provides a broad range of software, appliances and services to
help companies secure and manage their IT infrastructures. While at
Symantec Worldwide, he was responsible for managing the company’s
enterprise security line.

In addition, Ahlm has written numerous whitepapers published on security
topics, participated as keynote speaker at various security conferences,
and consulted with top companies in the United States. His areas of
interest and study is in hacking techniques, penetration testing, and
working with security professionals to discover new exploits and proof
of concept tools to help clients tighten their security.

Ahlm holds a B.S.E.E.T. (Bachelor of Science Electrical Engineering
Technologist) from Devry University.