## About Ofer

I’m a passionate cybersecurity professional with 25 years of experience
in the industry, 20 of which in the AppSec field. I’ve been part of
OWASP for 16 years, (almost) since its inception, and I’ve had the
opportunity to take part of different activities and wear different hats
with OWASP through those years, seeing how OWASP has grown and evolved
over the years from a tiny idea to what drives the industry standard in
application security today. 

At the same time, I’ve also had the opportunity to work in various roles
in the security industry, ranging from pen-testing, consulting,
research, support, development, product management and all the way up to
founding and managing several companies in this space. I’ve been a
Breaker, a Builder and a Defender. I’ve been as hands-on and technical
as it gets, but also had the chance to see how things operate on the
larger scale. 

Deep inside, I’m still a (ethical) hacker at heart, and I’m still an
idealist about the the notion of community and open source at large, and
OWASP specifically, yet at the same time I understand how organizations
operate and what they need to do to thrive, and I believe this balance
is what I can bring to the OWASP Board. I will strive to help the
foundation to grow and improve so that it can better support the
community which OWASP has always been and should be. I will work to keep
this balance, so that OWASP can become even better than it is today.

### Experience

I’ve been part of OWASP for 16 years, (almost) since its inception, and
I’ve had the opportunity of being involved in various activities:

  - I’ve been on the board of OWASP Israel for 9 years, of which I was
    the chair for 4 years. During this time OWASP Israel has grown
    considerably and transformed from a small chapter with no funding
    (and a single board member) to one of the largest communities in
    OWASP with a proper board and volunteer base.
  - For the past decade we’ve been running the OWASP AppSec IL
    conference every year, growing it from a half-day, single-track
    event with 90 attendees to a multi-day conference with trainings and
    over 700 attendees. Today, OWASP AppSec IL is one of the most
    attended OWASP events every year. I’ve had the chance of running the
    conference as a chair for several years and took on other roles
    later, including content committee (speaker selection), sponsorships
    (driving revenue to the conference), and more.
  - I’ve also been part of the Global Membership Committee (before the
    committees were disassembled). In this role we drove initiatives to
    increase OWASP membership (and thus revenue) for both individuals
    and corporates.

Outside of OWASP, I’ve had the chance of working in various roles in the
industry. I’ve also had the chance of founding and running my own
companies – first an AppSec consulting company, followed by an AppSec
product company (both later acquired and still alive). I’ve been on the
Board of several companies (including a publicly traded company in
NYSE/Euronext), and I’ve had the chance to define, manage and review
budgets and financial management of companies.

For more information about my professional experience you are welcome to
visit my LinkedIn Profile: <https://www.linkedin.com/in/ofermaor/>

You can also listen to my latest podcast recording from AppSec EU 2018
by Chris Romeo from the Application Security Podcast, where I share some
of my history, my current work and my intention to run for the OWASP
Board at:
<https://www.securityjourney.com/blog/a-pen-testers-transition-to-appsec-vote-for-ofer/>

## Why Me?

I’m passionate about OWASP, and especially about its community. I’ve
been working with OWASP for a long time, and have always cared for it.
I’ve met some of the best people along my professional career through
the OWASP community, and many of them became long lasting friends.
Through my entire time with OWASP, the community is what drives me
forward, and driving this community forward is what I can bring to the
table.

Rather than "Why Me?", someone recently asked me "Why Now?". These
questions are related. Over the course of 16 years with OWASP, the
thought of submitting my candidacy for the board has crossed my mind
several times. At times I felt there were already candidates with more
experience than I had, at other times I was too occupied by running my
own company to allow for the time commitment that the OWASP board
entails, but I feel now is the right time where I can contribute the
most.

OWASP is going through growing pains, that are natural at this time and
place, yet still immensely challenging. OWASP has a growing financial
pressure to support its growth, and at the same time has growing
industry pressures, with vendors looking to influence the industry
standards that it set. These pressures present great challenges for
OWASP, both on the foundation and on the community, generating friction
and frustration. Last year we’ve witnessed such a disconnect and
miscommunication, which nearly ripped the community apart. During that
time, I’ve worked with the board, the foundation and the community, to
smooth things out, find the right solution, and prevent the rip.

Seeing which challenges we are facing, and the contribution I can offer,
allowed me to make up my mind that now is the time and place for me to
become part of the board, and do the best I can to contribute to OWASP.

### Focus

I plan to focus on the fine balance between the community, the financial
constraints and the industry as a whole, to make sure OWASP stays true
to its spirit, yet is allowed to grows and evolve to its next phase,
reaching new audiences and making a greater impact on the software
industry as a whole. 

Some key areas I plan to focus on include:

  - **Chapters:** I believe there’s room to reform the chapters
    structure – make it easier to kick off meetups and community
    activities, while reducing the administrative burden from the
    foundation. As a board member I will initiate activities, together
    with the community, to find a more efficient structure that will
    serve us better.
  - **Membership**: I believe our current membership structure, both at
    the individual and corporate levels, makes it hard to increase
    membership revenue to the foundation, as it is not always clear what
    is the membership value. As a board member I will work with the
    foundation and the community to build new membership offerings that
    could help increase membership revenue, while recognizing community
    contribution.
  - **Committees:** I believe Global Committees can be a great way to
    drive more initiatives by people in community, who are eager to do
    more and need the right framework. As a board member I will support
    initiatives that offer the community the framework to do more,
    especially around Chapters, Projects, and Education (and work to
    make sure they function better this time).
  - **Vendor Neutrality:** Throughout my entire OWASP roles, I’ve always
    put great emphasize on vendor neutrality (despite working for one or
    another throughout this entire time). I believe the only way to keep
    OWASP relevant and valuable, is by making sure the content we
    produce in projects, conferences and education is neutral - focusing
    on best practices and practical knowledge, and not on marketing
    pitches and sales activities. As a board member I promise to
    vigorously fight against any attempt to externally influence OWASP
    as a whole, or any of its projects or conferences, in favor of
    specific vendor, whether it is financial gain or by taking control
    of an activity.

## Contact Me

If you'd like to know more - feel free to reach out to me:

  - Mail: ofer.maor@owasp.org
  - Twitter: @OferMaor