## The presentation

![Owasp_logo_normal.jpg](Owasp_logo_normal.jpg
"Owasp_logo_normal.jpg")A simple plug-in based open source framework for
Automation of detection and exploitation vulnerabilities such as SQL
Injection, Arbitrary File Upload and Remote Code Execution. Talks
demonstrates how to gain a remote shell in an SQL Injection just by one
request. Also it shows that it's possible to get a reverse shell out of
SQL Injection by mounting a CSRF attack which wasn't possible before
this. WebRaider is written in .NET, open-source and allows users to
write new attack plug-ins. It's a similar design to CORE Impact just for
web applications and vulnerabilites which causes remote code execution.
It's planned to be an OWASP Project, and will be publicly released in
the conference among with "One Click Ownage" whitepaper which explains
one request remote code execution in SQL Server. This will be an updated
and more detailed version of the talk that I've presented in
ITUnderground 2009. However the whitepaper, WebRaider tool and details
of the talk hasn't been published yet.

## The speaker

Ferruh Mavituna worked as Security Consultant for Turkish Army and
Police Forces. Released several research papers such as "SQL Injection
Wildcard Attacks" and "XSS Tunnelling" also contributed to OWASP Testing
Guide v3. Released several open source projects in web applications area
such as "BSQL Hacker" and "XSS Shell". Was OWASP Turkey Chapter Leader
for 3 years. He's currently working as Project Leader of "Netsparker,
Web Application Security Scanner" for Mavituna Security Ltd.

[Category:OWASP_AppSec_DC_09](Category:OWASP_AppSec_DC_09 "wikilink")
[Category:OWASP_Conference_Presentations](Category:OWASP_Conference_Presentations "wikilink")