![468x60-banner-2010.gif](468x60-banner-2010.gif
"468x60-banner-2010.gif")

[Registration](https://guest.cvent.com/EVENTS/Register/IdentityConfirmation.aspx?e=d52c6f5f-d568-4e16-b8e0-b5e2bf87ab3a)
|
[Hotel](https://resweb.passkey.com/Resweb.do?mode=welcome_gi_new&groupID=2766908)
| [Walter E. Washington Convention
Center](http://www.dcconvention.com/)
\== The presentation ==

![Ivan_buetler_small.jpg](Ivan_buetler_small.jpg
"Ivan_buetler_small.jpg")What makes the difference between a web
application firewall and a web entry server? Learn in this talk more
about web entry servers, architecture, pre-authentication, shared memory
based session store, session hiding and service level access control.

The talk will start from a clean apache web server that will then be
turned into a reverse proxy, from where mod_security enables the web
app firewall capabilities. In the next step, the audience will learn and
see how to turn this WAF into a Pre-Auth engine with url based access
controls and session hiding features.

At the end of the talk, we have setup a fully operational, secure and
open source web entry server in front of Facebook.

## Ivan Butler

After completing his studies for a B.S. of Electrical Engineering, Ivan
Buetler worked for several Swiss companies in the field of banking,
electronic stock market and IT security. In 1999 Ivan co-founded Compass
Security, a Swiss ethical hacking and penetration testing company
located in Rapperswil Switzerland. Several of his publications on
network and computer security have raised international recognition.
Besides his own business he is also a tutor at both the University of
Applied Sciences in Rapperswil and the Lucerne University of Applied
Sciences and Arts. Ivan was a recent speaker at Blackhat 2008 Las Vegas
about Smart Card (In)Security and APDU Debugging, IT Underground Warsaw
2009 about Advanced Web Hacking Techniques and in Singapore 2010 about
Mobile Payment Systems Vulnerabilities. He is in the board of the Swiss
Cyber Storm 3 Security Conference (May 2011), CTO of Hacking-Lab and
co-founder of the Cyber Tycoons anti-warfare foundation.

[Category:AppSec_DC_2010_Presentations](Category:AppSec_DC_2010_Presentations "wikilink")
[Category:OWASP_Conference_Presentations](Category:OWASP_Conference_Presentations "wikilink")