## OWASP Orlando Officers

  - Tony Turner - Chapter Leader and Chief Defender since 2011
  - Adrian Pastor - Chapter Co-Leader
  - Jack Norman - Chief Builder
  - Willa Riggins - Marketing Coordinator and Prior Chapter Co-Leader
    2012-2013

## Past OWASP Orlando Officers

  - Willa Riggins - Marketing Coordinator 2013-2018. Chapter Co-Leader
    2012-2013
  - Michael Felch - Chief Breaker 2015-2018
  - Jon Singer - Prior Chapter Co-Leader 2013-2015

## Meeting Registration

Please register for our meetings at
<https://www.meetup.com/OWASP-Orlando>

## OWASP Orlando Chapter Meetings

**Tuesday 12/4/2018 Presentation Meeting**

  - Intro to Frida - for binary and mobile app analysis - David
    Incorvaia

This is an introductory level presentation on Frida. What the tool can
open up to the engineer and basic reverse engineering adventures with
the tool.

  - Are you ready for the worst? - Tanya Janca

No matter the size of your IT shop, if the first time you think about
the security of the software is during a major incident, it’s not going
to go well. I will teach developers and security teams to prepare for,
manage, and hopefully prevent, application security incidents. Starting
with preparation; do you have a proper application inventory? How do you
manage your technology stack? Disaster Recover? Backup strategy? Do you
have a WAF? Monitoring? Tools that are at the ready when the s\* hits
the fan? During an incident; who’s managing the incident? Do you know?
What is triage? Who does the investigation? Do you have a “safe” place
to do potentially destructive testing? This talk outlines an immediate
plan for the audience to get started, with a list of open source tools
the security team and/or developers will use to ensure that they are
ready, for the worst.

  - Re-imagining Security Tools with OWASP ZAP - Simon Bennetts

ZAP is a flagship OWASP project and the most popular free, open source
web security tool in the world. It is used by everybody from newcomers
to security to experienced security professionals.

The ZAP desktop is extremely powerful, but it is very complicated and
can be confusing, particularly for newcomers regardless of their
security experience.

In this talk Simon, the ZAP project lead, will demonstrate a completely
new and innovative interface for ZAP that the team has been working on.

Meeting time:
4:00 PM to 8:00 PM ET

Address:
Valencia College -West Campus
1800 South Kirkman Road
Orlando, FL 32811
How to find us:
Building 11 Room 106 - park in Lot G or F
![OWASP_Orlando_Valencia_College.jpg](OWASP_Orlando_Valencia_College.jpg
"OWASP_Orlando_Valencia_College.jpg")

## Presentation Decks

[Patching Android
Binaries](https://www.owasp.org/images/e/ee/OWASP_Orl_20181025_Droid_Apps_RE.pdf)
- Adrian Pastor Q4 2018

[OpenSAMM & Maturity
Programs](https://www.owasp.org/images/3/3d/OWASP_Orlando_2017_-_OpenSAMM.PDF)
- Adrian Pastor Q2 2017

[Do AppSec Shortcuts
Exist?](https://www.owasp.org/images/a/a3/AppSec_Shortcuts.pdf) - Greg
Wolford Q2 2016

[XXE: The Anatomy of an XML
Attack](https://www.owasp.org/images/3/30/XXE_-_The_Anatomy_of_an_XML_Attack_-_Mike_Felch.pdf)
- Mike Felch Q2 2016

[iOS Automation
Primitives](https://www.owasp.org/images/3/3f/Owasporlandoapril132016-160414185141.pdf)
- Mikhail "Mike" Sosonkin Q2 2016

[OWASP Top 10 with Code
Examples](https://www.owasp.org/images/3/3f/OWASP_Top_10_-_Deep_Dive_-_Code.pptx)
- Slides by Bill Riggins, Co-Presented with Tony Turner Orlando Q1 2013

[Web Application Firewalls and Identity and Access Management
Integration](https://owasp.org/images/e/ee/Orlando_OWASP_WAF_and_IAM_Integration_92012_v2.pptx)
- Jan Poscobutt Orlando Q3 2012

[Don't Drop the Soap: Real World Web Service Testing for Web
Hackers](https://owasp.org/images/2/2e/Orlando_OWASP_-_RealWorldWebServiceTesting.pptx)
- Kevin Johnson Orlando Q3 2012

[Application Firewalling in the Age of Mobile: New
Considerations](https://owasp.org/images/7/7f/OWASP_Orlando_20120515_App_Fw_age_of_mobile.pdf)
- Stephen Mak Orlando Q2 2012

\[<https://www.owasp.org/images/6/60/2012Whereweare>..Wherearewegoing.pptx
OWASP Where are we... Where are we going in 2012\] - Tom Brennan Orlando
Q1 2012

[Access Control
Pitfalls](https://www.owasp.org/images/c/ce/Access_Control_Pitfalls_v1.1.pptx)
- Jim Manico Orlando Q1 2012 (Optional 2nd talk not delivered at chapter
meeting)

[XSS Past Present and Future
v2](https://www.owasp.org/images/e/e8/XSS_Past_Present_and_Future_v2.pptx)
- Jim Manico Orlando Q1 2012

## Meeting History

**Tuesday 11/13/2018 Presentation Meeting**

Topic:

  - Third Party Software Vulnerability Assessments - David Dillard
  - Lightning Intro to ASVS - Adrian Pastor and Tony Turner

Meeting time:
6:00 PM to 8:30 PM ET

Address:
Valencia College -West Campus
1800 South Kirkman Road
Orlando, FL 32811
How to find us:
Building 11 Room 106 - park in Lot G or F
![OWASP_Orlando_Valencia_College.jpg](OWASP_Orlando_Valencia_College.jpg
"OWASP_Orlando_Valencia_College.jpg")

-----

**Thursday 10/25/2018 Presentation Meeting**

Topics:

  - OWASP Risk Rating Methodology - Tony Turner
  - Patching Android Binaries - Adrian Pastor

Meeting time:
6:00 PM to 8:00 PM ET

Address:
Valencia College -West Campus
1800 South Kirkman Road
Orlando, FL 32811
How to find us:
Building 11 Room 106 - park in Lot G or F

![OWASP_Orlando_Valencia_College.jpg](OWASP_Orlando_Valencia_College.jpg
"OWASP_Orlando_Valencia_College.jpg")

-----

**Thursday 03/23/2017 Presentation & Workshop Meeting**

OpenSAMM & Maturity Programs – What's It All About?

During this OWASP Orlando chapter meeting, we'll get started with a
turbo talk by Adrian Pastor on OpenSAMM and maturity programs. We'll
then follow up with a workshop to further explore some of the topics
covered by Adrian.

Parking is free in the dirt lot on the North side of Pine St.

-----

**Thursday 09/29/2016 Social Meeting**

On 09/29, we’re having a social meeting to network, meet fellow
OWASPers, and reach out to the central Florida developer community. In
addition to free food and beverages, we’ll give away some OWASP swag.

The location for our social meeting will be Downtown PourHouse, at 20 S
Orange Ave, Orlando. We’ll meet from 5:30 PM to 8 PM approximately, or
as late as people want to stay.

We look forward to seeing you.

-----

**Thursday 08/25/2016 Presentation Meeting**

The meeting is free to attend and will take place from 5 to 7 PM. *Free
food and drinks will be provided\!* Meeting facilities will be kindly
provided by HD Supply. Parking is free in the [dirt
lot](https://goo.gl/maps/jgikdkWYB1D2) on the North side of Pine St.

Advanced IDS Evasions Using Scapy - Sanders Diaz

IDS Evasion has been a problem for Intrusion Detection since the
technology's infancy. Even though new technologies like such as
Intrusion Prevention Systems, Unified Threat management, and Next
Generation firewalls have replaced the traditional IDS, while doing so
they inherited its weaknesses to evasion. In 2010, StoneSoft conducted a
BlackHat talk on the restated the relevance of Evasion techniques by
introducing the Stacked IDS Evasion Technique. This technique combines
prior known IDS evasion techniques and combines them simultaneously to
successfully evade many class leading products like the Palo Alto,
Fortigate, Cisco ASA, and others. Since then, the leading vendors have
implemented fixes to stacked evasions in later generations of their
platforms, but academic studies have proven stacked evasions still work,
even if they are less effective. Furthermore, it is still possible to
find outmoded devices both outside and inside the perimeter of
organizations large and small. This talk aims to demonstrate the
relevance of these techniques, offer instruction for the application of
these techniques via scapy, and provide recommendations for how to cope
with the problem.

Location Details
HD Supply[1](https://goo.gl/maps/HEsWx3JWuLw)
501 W Church St
Orlando, FL

-----

**Thursday 07/28/2016 Social Meeting**

*Note: this meeting was originally planned to be a presentation meeting
but the speaker couldn't attend for personal reasons.*

The meeting is free to attend and will take place from 5 to 7 PM. *Free
food and drinks will be provided\!* Meeting facilities will be kindly
provided by HD Supply. Parking is free in the [dirt
lot](https://goo.gl/maps/jgikdkWYB1D2) on the North side of Pine St.

Location Details
HD Supply[2](https://goo.gl/maps/HEsWx3JWuLw)
501 W Church St
Orlando, FL

-----

**Thursday 06/23/2016 Presentation Meeting**

The meeting is free to attend and will take place from 5 to 7 PM. *Free
food and drinks will be provided\!* Meeting facilities will be kindly
provided by Darden Restaurants.

Do AppSec Shortcuts Exist? - Greg Wolford

As enterprises shift to continuous delivery and other DevOps
innovations, the pressure is mounting to produce more secure software
faster. Yet, according to SANS, less than 26% of organizations have
mandated, ongoing secure coding education programs. Do shortcuts exist
for improving the state of your application security program? Are some
programing languages inherently more secure than others? What should
design teams look for before starting their projects?

This session will provide tangible steps addressing these issues based
on benchmark data from actual code-level analysis of trillions of lines
of code from applications submitted to Veracode’s cloud-based platform.
Attendees will hear tips organized by programing language that will aid
in planning for new application development as well as prioritize
assessment and remediation activities.

Location Details
Darden Restaurants
1000 Darden Center Drive
Orlando, FL 32837

-----

**Friday 05/13/2016 Presentation Meeting**

The meeting is free to attend and will take place from 5 to 7 PM. *Free
food and drinks will be provided\!* Meeting facilities will be kindly
provided by HD Supply. Parking is free in the [dirt
lot](https://goo.gl/maps/jgikdkWYB1D2) on the North side of Pine St.

XXE: The Anatomy of an XML Attack, by Mike Felch.

With XML being such a popular yet misunderstood file format, it's gained
a lot of momentum as an exciting target for attackers. By default, XML's
rich design creates a unique attack surface in applications which can
pose problems when trying to mitigate. This talk will focus on one
attack using external entities (XXE), which is plaguing mature
applications from corporations like SAP, IBM, and Cisco to web
applications within Yahoo, Google, and Facebook.

While XXE attacks are not extremely new, it seems to have gone unnoticed
by most of the developers. Depending on the programming language and
version, XML may enable the ability to use external entities by default
which can create application specific attack primitives such as local
file reads, denial of service, or unauthenticated remote code execution.

This presentation will briefly look at XML and how XXE is implemented,
examine some real world attack payloads which leverage XXE to compromise
web environments, and what developers can do to secure their
applications. After the presentation, a vulnerable XXE application will
be provided for attendees to exploit.

By the end of the meeting, attendees will have a much deeper
appreciation for XML and the security risks that come with not
understanding how programming languages implement the underlying
technology.

Bio: Mike Felch is a senior pentester and security researcher with 18
years experience in offensive security strategies. He holds no degree
and no certifications, just raw experience.

Location Details
HD Supply[3](https://goo.gl/maps/HEsWx3JWuLw)
501 W Church St
Orlando, FL

-----

**Wednesday 04/13/2016 Presentation Meeting**

The meeting is free to attend and will take place from 5 to 7 PM. *Free
food and drinks will be provided\!* Meeting facilities will be kindly
provided by HD Supply. Parking is free in the [dirt
lot](https://goo.gl/maps/jgikdkWYB1D2) on the North side of Pine St.

iOS Automation Primitives by Mikhail "Mike" Sosonkin,
[SYNACK](https://www.synack.com/company/rd/)

From the user’s perspective Android and iOS are not too dissimilar. One
is cheaper than the other and pretty much everyone makes their apps for
both types of phones. However, from the security testing perspective
things are very different. Android is open and has lots of standard
mechanisms to assist with testing. On the other hand, iOS is closed and
requires lots of non standard methods for black box testing. The caveat
is, of course, unless you own and control the build of the application
but, that is not completely black box. If you do then you can use any
number of tools: Appium, Apple UI Automation, etc.

This talk will cover reasons for why we constrain ourselves to this type
of testing as well as various tools and techniques for instrumenting iOS
apps to do UI automation. Specifically, we are constrained to no source
code and no way to make a special build. The jailbreak community has
developed many of these building blocks that if used in concert can
provide for a powerful testing automation framework. This talk will also
demonstrate a reference implementation of an extensible tool that brings
all the primitives together to automate the testing of iOS applications.

Location Details
HD Supply[4](https://goo.gl/maps/HEsWx3JWuLw)
501 W Church St
Orlando, FL

-----

**Thursday 02/18/2016 Social Meeting**

On 02/18, we’re having a social meeting to network, meet fellow
OWASPers, and reach out to the central Florida developer community. In
addition to free food and beverages, we’ll give away OWASP swag and
books as trivia prizes.

The location for our social meeting will be Downtown PourHouse, at 20 S
Orange Ave, Orlando. We’ll meet from 5:30 PM to 8 PM approximately.

For more details or to join our Meetup community, check out
<http://www.meetup.com/OWASP-Orlando/events/228782867/>

-----

**Monday 01/18/2016 Training Meeting**

The meeting on 01/18 will consist of a secure programming workshop which
will be kindly delivered by Jim Manico. The workshop will start at noon,
and end at 5 PM approximately.

The location for our Jan 18 training meeting will be the following:

HD Supply[5](https://goo.gl/maps/HEsWx3JWuLw)
501 W Church St
Orlando, FL

-----

**Thursday 01/07/2016 Social Meeting**

On 01/07, we’re having a social meeting to network, meet fellow
OWASPers, and reach out to the central Florida developer community. In
addition to free food and beverages, we’ll give away OWASP swag and
books as trivia prizes.

The location for our social meeting will be Downtown PourHouse, at 20 S
Orange Ave, Orlando. We’ll meet from 5:30 PM to 8 PM approximately.

-----

**2015 Meeting November 19**

If you are in Orlando on Thursday November 19th, please join us at the
next OWASP Orlando chapter meeting. *Free food and drinks will be
provided\!* We'll be conducting a roundtable style discussion of topics
of interest such as:

  - Static vs Dynamic Testing (perhaps IAST too)
  - Web App Firewalls vs Runtime Application Security Protection vs
    fixing vulnerable code
  - Other topics - if you have one you'd like to see covered email the
    leaders

The meeting is free to attend and will take place from 5 PM to 7.30 PM.
The location will be kindly provided by HD Supply. Parking is free in
the dirt lot on the north side of Pine St.

Location Details
HD Supply[6](https://goo.gl/maps/HEsWx3JWuLw)
501 W Church St
Orlando, FL

-----

**2015 Meeting October 29**

If you are in Orlando on Thursday October 29th, please join us at the
next OWASP Orlando chapter meeting. *Free food and drinks will be
provided\!* We'll have two amazing presentations on reverse-engineering
Android applications and attacking cryptographic libraries.

The meeting is free to attend and will take place from 5 PM to 7.30 PM.
The location will be kindly provided by HD Supply. Parking is free in
the dirt lot on the north side of Pine St.

Location Details
HD Supply[7](https://goo.gl/maps/HEsWx3JWuLw)
501 W Church St
Orlando, FL
Guest Speakers

Reverse Engineering Android Applications for Pride and Glory - Ben
Watson

This presentation will serve as an introduction for those who want to
dive into the art of reverse engineering Android applications and
firmware. We will explore the inner workings of the Android
architecture, traverse the landscape of reverse engineering tools and
techniques, and propose some practical methodologies and workflows for
all your bug hunting needs.

Ben Watson has over 7 dedicated years in application and mobile
security. Prior to joining GuidePoint Security, Ben has been solving
mobile & application security problems for cutting edge companies in the
financial services, eCommerce, and medical industries. Often Ben has
been sought after for building application security programs from the
ground up. This is due to his experience in not only developing testing
methodologies, tools, and techniques, but his understanding and
perspective around what it requires to build secure products. Ben has
managed and lead efforts in large mobile application security service
initiatives, and is also an experienced mobile security researcher. He
currently focuses his efforts around discovering new exploitable
vulnerability patterns in Android and iOS. He also has multiple
published zero day vulnerabilities effecting various Android web
browsers, and is the creator and curator of the Android assessment
toolkit called Lobotomy.

Do Your Own Highly Successful Five-minute Cryptography Evaluations -
Scott Arciszewski

From web frameworks to encrypted chat applications to contactless
smartcards, our industry is filled with people who deploy home-grown
cryptography. The result of this choice is usually catastrophic. Even if
you're using good primitives from well-studied libraries, how you
utilize them can completely defeat the security they provide. Clearly,
rolling your own cryptography is a bad idea; but how do you assess the
libraries that others have written? The following implementations will
be scrutinized:

  - OpenCart's Encryption library (ECB mode, no MAC)
  - Tutanota's messaging app (CBC mode without a MAC)
  - Mifare Classic's Proprietary Stream Cipher (aside from the 48-bit
    key, this cipher is incredibly unsound)
  - Defuse Security's PHP Encryption Library (safe, for reasons I will
    explain)
  - Libsodium - crypto_box() (safe, for reasons I will explain)

Before winning the password hashing category of the Underhanded Crypto
Contest at the Crypto & Privacy Village at DEFCON this year, Scott has
spent years studying how to make real-world cryptosystems fail in useful
ways for attackers, from timing side-channels to padding oracles and
random number generator failures. Scott leads the software development
efforts for, and audits client's cryptography products on behalf of, the
Orlando-based technology consulting firm, Paragon Initiative
Enterprises.

-----

**Q4 2014 Meeting November 12**

We will be holding our Q4 meeting on Wednesday, November 12th at The
University of Central Florida, main campus.
There is NO cost to attend. Refreshments and snacks are provided by
HeroiSec. Location Provided by University of Central Florida.

Guest Speakers

Blog like a hacker - Vikram Dhillon
People just entering information security have a tough path ahead to
become established and well-known. One major tool that almost all well
known security analysts have is a blog where they all reach out to their
audience. Getting a blog on a popular CMS platform is easy and of course
great and all but you can't show your own skills off. Enter Jekyll. A
blog written from scratch up where you can show off your own development
skills. Most developers are using their own styling along with various
plugins combined in this Ruby-based tool to show off how they can blog
like a hacker. This session will be a walkthrough of how to blog using
jekyll. I will showcase what the finished project looks like, how to get
started with one, the structure of the app and finally how to extend the
blog you've created with your own imagination.

Technological Telekinesis: Become One with the Force (aka Art, Gadgets
and Tech) - Nathan Selikoff
Witness how objects and digital worlds can be manipulated without any
direct contact. You never see a Jedi with a keyboard or a touchscreen,
do you? Why be tethered when you can freely express yourself? With a
low-cost input device, a laptop, and a bit of programming know-how, you
can capture a flick of the wrist or an all out dance routine. What you
do from there is only limited by your imagination. Kinect yourself and
Leap into the future\! Nathan Selikoff is an artist and programmer who
plays with interactivity and motion in time and space. Inspired by the
behavior of systems, science, nature, and music, he combines computer
code, traditional materials, and future technology to bring new ideas to
life.

Schedule

6:00PM - 6:15 Arrive at UCF

6:15 - 7:00 Blog like a hacker - Vikram Dhillon

7:00 - 7:10 Short break for refreshments and questions

7:10 - 7:55 Technological Telekinesis - Nathan Selikoff

7:55 - 8:00 Questions and closing remarks

8:00 - ? World of Beer social gathering (21+)

Location Details
UCF Teaching
Academy[8](https://www.google.com/maps/place/Teaching+Academy)
Room 117
4221 Andromeda Loop N
Orlando, FL 32816

Parking Details
Garage A
University Blvd.

![<File:ORLMAP.png>](ORLMAP.png "File:ORLMAP.png")

-----

**Q2 2014 May 12 Secure Coding Training**

We will be holding a midday 4 hour training on secure application
development led by Jim Manico. This workshop is an abridged version of
the following course:

The class is a combination of lecture, security testing demonstration
and code review. Students will learn the most common threats against
applications. More importantly, students will learn how to code secure
web solutions via defense-based code samples.

As part of this course, we will explore the use of third-party security
libraries and frameworks to speed and standardize secure development. We
will highlight production quality API's from various languages and
frameworks that provide production quality and scalable security
controls.

This course will include secure coding information for Java, PHP and
.NET programmers, but any software developer building web applications,
webservices or mobile applications will benefit.

Jim Manico is a member of the OWASP Board and currently manages many
OWASP projects including the cheatsheet series. He also runs Manicode
Security where he specializes in application security training

Training location IST Partnership 2 2nd Floor Room 208 3100 Technology
Parkway Orlando, FL 32826

The parking lot will (most likely) be full

You can also park across the street at: College of Nursing Address:
12201 Research Parkway, Orlando, FL 32826

-----

**Q4 2013 October 30 Meeting**

OWASP Orlando is holding a social event for Q3/4 with complimentary
wings and beer at Buffalo Wild Wings. We'd like to welcome you out to
talk about web app security, upcoming events, Central FL infosec and
other topics of note. There is no formal agenda, just show up, eat food,
drink beer and hang out\! We do have a limited budget for this event and
expect we should have enough for the first couple hours, but if turn out
is much greater than anticipated, or folks want to stay later we may
have to switch to a non-free model at some point in the evening. Please
register for this event so we can get an accurate account for who will
be coming and an idea of cost.

Topics of interest:

• AppSecUSA conference in NYC (Nov 17-21)

• B-Sides Orlando conference (April 5-6)

• Chapter Outreach Opportunities (We recently presented for ISACA)

• Other CFL Inosec groups (Some new groups, some old. We want to work
with you\!)

• Cool projects you are working on

• Beer

There is NO cost to attend, but if you are interested in donating or
joining the chapter please contact me at tony.turner@owasp.org

We do not currently have sponsorship for this event, if you are
interested please do not hesitate to contact us.

<http://goo.gl/N5TRrw>

-----

**Q2 2013 Meeting June 26**

Our Q2 meeting for 2013 will be a bit of a change in pace. Due to
chapter demand for more hands on content, we are holding a Web App
Hacking Workshop. You will need to bring a laptop with VMware
Workstation or Player (free) installed. We will provide the VM. As
always we will have our AppSec Trivia Contest and we have some OWASP
hardcopy books for Testing Guide, Code Review Guide and Top 10 to give
away as prizes.

6:15 - 6:30 Arrive at Cloudspace (see below)

6:30 - 6:45 Welcome and Opening Remarks

6:45 - 8:00 "Web App Hacking Workshop with Mutillidae" Facilitated by
Tony Turner

8:00 - ? After event social gathering - Location TBD

We do not currently have a sponsor for this event but refreshments will
be provided. If you are interested in sponsoring please contact
tony.turner@owasp.org

Cloudspace (near UCF Main campus) 11551 University Blvd Suite 2 Orlando,
FL 32817

<http://goo.gl/45l1b>

-----

**Q1 2013 Meeting February 13**

We are kicking off Q1 of 2013 by going back to the basics. Chapter
leadership will be delivering coverage of the OWASP Top 10, with
examples and ways you can help reduce your exposure. As always we will
have our AppSec Trivia Contest and we have some OWASP hardcopy books for
Testing Guide, Code Review Guide and Top 10 to give away as prizes.

We have also changed our venue to Cloudspace who have graciously allowed
us to use their space. UCF Medical College, while a great facility was a
bit far for some folks to drive so we hope this will work out better for
everyone.

6:15 - 6:30 Arrive at Cloudspace (see below)

6:30 - 6:45 Welcome and Opening Remarks

6:45 - 8:00 "OWASP Top 10" - Tony Turner and William Riggins

8:00 - ? After event social gathering - Location TBD

We do not currently have a sponsor for this event but refreshments will
be provided. If you are interested in sponsoring please contact
tony.turner@owasp.org

Cloudspace (near UCF Main campus) 11551 University Blvd Suite 2 Orlando,
FL 32817 <http://goo.gl/45l1b>

-----

**Q3 2012 Meeting September 12**

5:45 - 6:00 Arrive

6:00 - 6:15 Welcome and Opening Remarks / Appsec Trivia

6:15 - 7:00 "An Insider's Look: WAF and Identity and Access Management
Integration" - Jan Poczobutt, Director of Enterprise ADC & WAF Sales at
Barracuda Networks, will provide an inside look at some of the problems
with traditional access management implementations and how enterprises
can sucessfully overcome these challenges by integrating web application
firewall technologies with Identity and Access Management. Learn about
best practices, specific use cases and how this new integration
translates into operational simplicity for the enterprise.

7:00 - 7:15 Break

7:15 - 8:00 "Don't Drop the SOAP: Real World Web Service Testing for Web
Hackers" - Over the years web services have become an integral part of
web and mobile applications. From critical business applications like
SAP to mobile applications used by millions, web services are becoming
more of an attack vector than ever before. Unfortunately, penetration
testers haven't kept up with the popularity of web services, recent
advancements in web service technology, testing methodologies and tools.
In fact, most of the methodologies and tools currently available either
don't work properly, are poorly designed or don't fully test for real
world web service vulnerabilities. In addition, environments for testing
web service tools and attack techniques have been limited to home grown
solutions or worse yet, production environments.

In this presentation Kevin Johnson will discuss the new security issues
with web services and discuss an updated web service testing methodology
released at defcon 19 last year that will be integrated into the OWASP
testing guide, new Metasploit modules and exploits for attacking web
services and an open source vulnerable web service for the Samurai-WTF
(Web Testing Framework) that can be used by penetration testers to test
web service attack tools and techniques.

  - Kevin Johnson is a security consultant and founder of Secure Ideas.
    Kevin came to security from a development and system administration
    background. He has many years of experience performing security
    services for fortune 100 companies, and in his spare time he
    contributes to a large number of open source security projects.
    Kevin's involvement in open-source projects is spread across a
    number of projects and efforts. He is the founder of many different
    projects and has worked on others. He founded BASE, which is a Web
    front-end for Snort analysis. He also founded and continues to lead
    the SamuraiWTF live DVD. This is a live environment focused on Web
    penetration testing. He also founded Yokoso and Laudanum, which are
    focused on exploit delivery. Kevin is a certified instructor for
    SANS and the author of Security 542: Web Application Penetration
    Testing and Ethical Hacking. He also presents at industry events,
    including DEFCON and ShmooCon, and for various organizations, like
    Infragard, ISACA, ISSA, and the University of Florida.

Twitter: @secureideas

We do not currently have a sponsor for this event but refreshments will
be provided. If you are interested in sponsoring please contact
tony.turner@owasp.org

University of Central Florida has graciously agreed to provide meeting
space at the Medical College campus.

-----

**Q2 2012 Meeting May 15**

The theme for Q2 is Mobile Security

5:45 - 6:00 Arrive

6:00 - 6:15 Welcome and Opening Remarks / Appsec Trivia

6:15 - 7:00 "Practical Android Security" - Jack Mannino

  -
    Building secure Android applications can be achieved with a mix of
    common sense, leveraging platform security features, and following
    secure development best practices. This presentation will focus on
    security “quick wins” during development and will cover techniques
    that can reduce the overall attack surface within Android
    applications.

7:00 - 7:15 Break

7:15 - 8:00 "Application Firewalling in the Age of Mobile: New
Considerations" - Stephen Mak

  -
    With mobile application development on a rapid rise, it is important
    to understand the security risks associated with externally
    published APIs. This talk will discuss the similarities and
    differences of risks posed by browser-based web applications and
    mobile applications.

<!-- end list -->

  - Jack Mannino is the CEO of nVisium Security, an application security
    firm located within the Washington DC area. At nVisium, he helps to
    ensure that large corporations, government agencies, and software
    startups have the tools they need to build and maintain successful
    application security initiatives. He is an active Android security
    researcher, and has a keen interest in identifying security issues
    and trends on a large scale. Jack is the leader and founder of the
    OWASP Mobile Security Project. He also serves as a board member on
    the OWASP Northern Virginia chapter. Jack is also the lead developer
    for the OWASP GoatDroid Project, which is a collection of vulnerable
    Android applications used for training and education.
  - Stephen Mak is the Product Manager for the Layer 7 SecureSpan
    Gateway, and has over 10 years product management experience in the
    enterprise application software industry.

Refreshments will be provided at the event and have been donated by
Fishnet Security.

University of Central Florida has graciously agreed to provide meeting
space at the Medical College campus.

-----

**Q1 2012 Meeting February 22**

5:45 - 6:00 Arrive

6:00 - 6:15 Welcome and Opening Remarks / Appsec Trivia

6:15 - 7:00 "OWASP Where are we... Where are we going in 2012" - Tom
Brennan

7:00 - 7:15 Break

7:15 - 8:00 "XSS Defense" - Jim Manico

  -
    This talk will discuss the past methods used for cross-site
    scripting (XSS) defense that were only partially effective. Learning
    from these lessons, we will also discuss present day defensive
    methodologies that are effective, but place an undue burden on the
    developer. We will then finish with a discussion of future XSS
    defense mythologies that shift the burden of XSS defense from the
    developer to various frameworks. These include auto-escaping
    template technologies, browser-based defenses such as Content
    Security Policy, and Javascript sandboxes such as the Google CAJA
    project and JSReg.

8:00 - ? After event social gathering - Cariera's

  - Tom Brennan is a Director at Spiderlabs/Trustwave, an OWASP Global
    Board Member and Chapter Leader for OWASP NY/NJ Metro.
  - Jim Manico is the VP of Security Architecture for WhiteHat Security,
    a web security firm. Jim is a participant and project manager of the
    OWASP Developer Cheatsheet series. He is also the producer and host
    of the OWASP Podcast Series.

Refreshments donated by Security Innovation.

University of Central Florida provided meeting space at the Medical
College campus.

-----

Inaugural Meeting October 19, 2011 6:30 PM at Seasons 52

We will be holding our first meeting on October 19 for an informal
gathering of those interested in the OWASP mission. This is a chance to
get to know the other members of the chapter and engage in the initial
dialogue that will drive the direction of the group. We want to know
what kinds of technologies you use or are interested in learning about,
the challenges you are facing in your daily work and get a sense for the
types of content you want to see at future meetings. I will bring some
copies of various OWASP guides and possibly some other OWASP shwag to
this initial meeting. We will be covering the OWASP mission, culture,
and a high level view of OWASP projects. The format for this meeting
will largely be discussion oriented. This is not currently a sponsored
event, but we do have interested parties asking about sponsorship
opportunities so this may change.

## Chapter Information

OWASP Orlando is newly formed as of August 2011. The first meeting was
held on October 19, 2011 and was designed largely as a social event to
bring new members together. After this initial informal meeting we are
continuing with quarterly meetings focused on content that attendees can
apply within their own environments for minimal or no-cost to their
organizations. We do not tolerate vendor-centric presentations but do
encourage vendors to present as long as they can keep their marketing
attempts to a minimum and focus on the underlying issues and technology.
Typically we have 2 speakers with topics designed to meet the needs of
the Builder, Breaker and Defender communities. As of April 2012 have
continued to meet this commitment. Keep watching this space for
announcements about upcoming events. If you are interested in being a
speaker or taking a more active leadership role within the chapter,
please contact the chapter leaders at the link above. Everyone is
welcome to join us at our chapter meetings. We track membership based on
participation at the mailing list linked on this page and this will be
the primary means of communication for the chapter. We also have a
Linkedin group at <http://goo.gl/BB9fu>

## Supporters

  - [For information on becoming a supporter and associated
    benefits](https://www.owasp.org/index.php/Membership)

**Organizational Supporters**

![symantec1.jpg](symantec1.jpg "symantec1.jpg")

-----

**Chapter Supporters**

![cloudspace_logo.png](cloudspace_logo.png "cloudspace_logo.png")

-----

**Single Meeting Supporters**

![Securityinnovation.png](Securityinnovation.png
"Securityinnovation.png") ![Fishnetlogo.png](Fishnetlogo.png
"Fishnetlogo.png")

-----

**Academic Supporters**

![Ucf_medcollege.png](Ucf_medcollege.png "Ucf_medcollege.png")

[Category:OWASP Chapter](Category:OWASP_Chapter "wikilink")
[Category:Florida](Category:Florida "wikilink")
[Category:Orlando](Category:Orlando "wikilink")