## [Agenda (two tracks)](AppSec_Washington_2005/Agenda "wikilink")

The full conference schedule including Power Point presentations is now
available here. Each of the speakers and what they have presented is
listed below. For the first time, given the number of speakers, the
conference was presented in two parallel tracks.

## Location - NIST

The conference was held at the Main Campus of the National Institute of
Standards and Technology (NIST), in Gaithersburg, MD, near Washington
DC. This conference was sponsored by the NIST Software Assurance Metrics
and Tool Evaluation (SAMATE) project, which is being run by Dr. Paul
Black, who is also on the conference committee. OWASP extends its
gratitude to NIST for offering to host our conference.

With a location near our nation's capital, OWASP intends to draw a wide
contingent of attendees from the commercial, government, and academic
arenas. The importance of application security has been growing
immensely over the past few years and people from all three areas need
to get together to discuss the state of the practice in application
security and encourage others to get involved and do what needs to get
done to protect the custom applications for which they are responsible.

## Speakers and Training Day

This year's conference included a number of speakers from the government
arena, including NIST, which we have not had represented at previous
OWASP conferences.

For the first time, OWASP has arranged to have a one day training course
on Web Application Security be offered the day prior to the course. More
information about this one day tutorial is available here: The
Foundations of Web Application Security. This course provides a great
introduction for conference attendees into the fundamental security
issues that are highly prevalent in today's Web Applications. The
prevalence of such vulnerabilities is why OWASP was formed to raise
awareness of and help organizations and individuals eliminate such
vulnerabilities from their application code.

## Evening Social Event - Oct. 11th

An optional social event for the evening of the 11th will be held at the
Holiday Inn Gaithersburg, which is the same location where the training
is to be held on the 10th, and where discounted rooms are being made
available to all conference attendees (see Accommodations below).

This event involves a dinner at the hotel from 7PM-9PM (which is
included in the event fee), followed by drinks at O'Malley's Irish Pub
right in the hotel or out by the hotel's indoor pool adjacent to the
pub.

## [Accommodations](AppSec_Washington_2005/Accommodations "wikilink")

NIST has arranged for a block of hotel rooms to be reserved for the
conference at a significant discount at the nearby Gaithersburg Holiday
Inn. Registration information for this hotel is available here. NIST
buses will be available to take attendees back and forth between the
hotel and the NIST campus during both days of the conference.

## Gaithersburg Holiday Inn location

  -
    2 MONTGOMERY VILLAGE AVE
    GAITHERSBURG, MD 20879

## Directions to NIST Main Campus

From northbound I-270 take Exit 10, Route 117 West, Clopper Road. Bear
right at the first light onto Clopper Road/West Diamond Avenue. At the
next light, turn left onto the NIST grounds.

From southbound I-270 take Exit 11, Route 124, Montgomery Village
Avenue/Quince Orchard Road. Bear right at the first light onto Route 124
West, Quince Orchard Road. After you merge onto Rt. 124, Quince Orchard
Road, turn left at the second light onto Route 117, West Diamond Avenue.
Turn right at the first light onto NIST grounds.

Directions from local airports to the NIST Main Campus is available at:
<http://www.nist.gov/public_affairs/maps/directions.htm>

## NIST Check In Process

NIST will provide Security with a list of all conference attendees.
Eveyone needs to stop by the Visitor Trailer on the first day of the
conference to show picture id and get a gate pass. You will then be
directed to the Administration Building where you will get your badge.

The conference will be in the Green Auditorium in the Administration
Building.

**Note:** No onsite registrations will be allowed for this conference.
It is against NIST policy to allow people to enter the NIST facility
without preregistering for the conference.

## Conference Committee

  - Dave Wichers, Aspect Security, (Conferences Chair)
  - Dr. Paul Black, NIST
  - Ken van Wyk, KRvW Associates
  - David A. Wheeler, IDA

If you have any questions about the conference please contact Dave
Wichers, the OWASP Conferences Chair, at conferences 'at' owasp.org

## Conference Sponsors

For the first time, OWASP is accepting sponsorships for the OWASP
Conference. OWASP would like to thank the following organizations for
sponsoring this conference:

**Facility Sponsor:**

![Image:Nist.jpg](Nist.jpg "Image:Nist.jpg")

**Conference Sponsors:**

[<https://www.owasp.org/images/d/d1/Aspect_logo.gif>](http://www.aspectsecurity.com)
[<https://www.owasp.org/images/3/33/Ounce_labs.jpg>](http://www.ouncelabs.com/)
[<https://www.owasp.org/images/f/ff/Teros05.gif>](http://www.teros.com/)
[<https://www.owasp.org/images/3/3e/Watchfirelogo.gif>](http://www.watchfire.com/products/webxm/security.aspx)
[<https://www.owasp.org/images/a/a1/CenzicLogoTag4C.gif>](http://www.cenzic.com/)
[<https://www.owasp.org/images/9/99/SS_logo.gif>](http://www.securesoftware.com/)
[<https://www.owasp.org/images/c/cd/Ps1.jpg>](http://www.parasoft.com/)

[Category:OWASP AppSec
Conference](Category:OWASP_AppSec_Conference "wikilink")