## The Presentation

![Owasp_logo_normal.jpg](Owasp_logo_normal.jpg
"Owasp_logo_normal.jpg") This presentation will cover the [OWASP Top
10](OWASP_Top_10 "wikilink") - 2010 Release Candidate that is being
released at the OWASP DC Conference. The OWASP Top 10 was originally
released in 2003 to raise awareness of the importance of application
security. As the field evolves, the Top 10 needs to be periodically
updated to keep with up with the times. The Top 10 was updated in 2004
and the last update was in 2007, where it introduced Cross Site Request
Forgery (CSRF) as the big new emerging web application security risk.

This update will be based on more sources of web application
vulnerability information than the previous versions were when
determining the new Top 10. It will also present this information in a
more concise, compelling, and consumable manner, and include strong
references to the many new openly available resources that can help
address each issue, particularly OWASP's new [Enterprise Security API
(ESAPI)](ESAPI "wikilink") and [Application Security Verification
Standard (ASVS)](ASVS "wikilink") projects.

A significant change for this update will be that the OWASP Top 10 will
be focused on the Top 10 **Risks** to Web Applications, not just the
most common vulnerabilities. At the conference will be the debut of the
release candidate of the new Top 10, which will open up a 60 day comment
period. After that time, a final version will be produced and released
in early 2010.

## Follow Up

The release candidate for the OWASP Top Ten for 2010 has been officially
released at the OWASP AppSec DC Conference today (Nov 13, 2009). This
document is now up for open comment until Dec 31, 2009. We will then
update the document and release a final version in early 2010, hopefully
January. Please send all comments to: dave.wichers@owasp.org.

The conference presentation which describes the changes, and goes
through each item in the new Top 10 can be downloaded here: ([OWASP
Top 10 - 2010 rc1
Presentation](http://www.owasp.org/images/a/a1/AppSec_DC_2009_-_OWASP_Top_10_-_2010_rc1.pptx)).

[Click here to download the OWASP Top 10 - 2010
rc1](http://www.owasp.org/index.php/File:OWASP_T10_-_2010_rc1.pdf)
itself.

## The Speaker

[Dave Wichers](User:Wichers "wikilink") is a member of the OWASP Board,
the OWASP Conferences Chair, and a coauthor, along with [Jeff
Williams](User:Jeff_Williams "wikilink"), of all previous versions of
the OWASP Top Ten.

Dave is also the Chief Operating Officer (COO) of Aspect Security
([www.aspectsecurity.com](http://www.aspectsecurity.com)), a company
that specializes in application security services. Mr. Wichers brings
over twenty years of experience in the information security field. Prior
to cofounding Aspect, he ran the Application Security Services Group at
a large data center company, Exodus Communications.

His current work involves helping customers, from small e-commerce sites
to Fortune 500 corporations and the U.S. Government, secure their
applications by providing application security design, architecture, and
SDLC support services: including code review, application penetration
testing, security policy development, security consulting services, and
developer training.

[Category:OWASP_AppSec_DC_09](Category:OWASP_AppSec_DC_09 "wikilink")
[Category:OWASP_Conference_Presentations](Category:OWASP_Conference_Presentations "wikilink")