<h1>

Q3 Update 2009

</h1>

Wanted to communicate a Q3 update about OWASP Foundation to all mailing
list members on a couple of high-level items.

A.OWASP @ Blackhat 2009 - If you will making the trip to \#Blackhat
(that's twitter speak) be sure to join us for the OWASP breakout
briefing about Critical Infrastructures July 29, 16:45 in Genoa room
this is the OFFICIAL meet-up.

B. OWASP EU Poland Videos are now online (thanks Seba) and people can
quickly get to them by going to <http://www.owasp.tv> or
<http://www.owasp.org/index.php/OWASP_AppSec_Europe_2009_-_Poland> see
OWASP blip videos share any of them with your teams = free SDLC training

C. OWASP board meetings have been happening every month for sometime
now. One of the most common questions I get personally is "what happened
at the last meeting..." well its not a secret ivory tower actually - we
keep agenda's and results of each monthly meeting ensuring that the
OWASP ethics and principals are being adhered to. So you can find this
information both historic and future meetings online see:
<http://www.owasp.org/index.php/OWASP_Board_Meetings> - should you have
a topic that you feel is critical for OWASP Foundation we request that
you communicate first with the appropriate Global Committee as the
purpose of these groups is to be a VOICE for each region in the world
and then focus on a defined mission with a team of energy filled persons
see: <http://www.owasp.org/index.php/Global_Committee_Pages> note each
committee is led by a board member as well.

Questions about money, tax returns etc., are all located online as well
see: <http://www.owasp.org/index.php/OWASP_Foundation> and managed by
Alison, what other professional technology group do you belong to that
is this transparent?

D. Global Committee's brings out another point - if you would like to
help OWASP continue to grow and have some cycles for selflessness
volunteerism or simply a suggestion based on your experiences - join the
mailing list and or contact the Global Committee
<http://www.owasp.org/index.php/Global_Committee_Pages> the best way to
change the world is to start with your local chapter, then region the
globally.

E. OWASP PodCasts <http://www.owasp.org/index.php/OWASP_Podcast> got
questions, comments or feedback for Jim Manico and team that have been
working very hard to bring you interviews with AppSec folks globally,
let them know send a email to podcast@owasp.org with your comments and
favorite episode and why.

F. OWASP Projects have been updated. Have a review of the existing ones
as well as detailed how-to on new projects see:
<http://www.owasp.org/index.php/Category:OWASP_Project>

G. HELP WANTED - The OWASP Job Board has lots of active postings of
firms looking for the best in the industry, if you are looking for
employment or if it is time to change gears and accelerate your career
visit <http://www.owasp.org/index.php/OWASP_Jobs> to have a look around

H. OWASP Conferences
<http://www.owasp.org/index.php/Category:OWASP_AppSec_Conference> the
USA, DC OWASP event is going to be a BIG event plan now to attend it
lock in your hotels and travel early. If you would like to host a
conference in 2010 be sure to contact Kate Hartmann with your proposal
for consideration for 2010.

I. OWASP GRANTS/SoC want to work on a OWASP project? Want to sponsor a
OWASP project take the time to review the following:
<http://www.owasp.org/index.php/OWASP_Season_of_Code_2009>

There is so much energy and passion with the OWASP Foundation, thank you
for being a member of our mailing lists and if you are an Individual
Member (a $50.00 annual donation) or a Organization Supporter (a
$5000.00 annual donation) and Accredited University Supporters are FREE
so talk to your University if they are not on the list already.

<center>

<http://www.owasp.org/index.php/Membership#Current_OWASP_Organization_Supporters_.26_Individual_Members>

</center>

On behalf of everyone at OWASP FOUNDATION, THANK YOU FOR YOUR SUPPORT TO
ALLOW US TO CONTINUE ON THE MISSION of "to make application security
visible, so that people and organizations can make informed decisions
about true application security risks".

Tom Brennan
Volunteer Board Member
OWASP Foundation
Direct: 973-202-0122
<http://www.linkedin.com/in/tombrennan>