The Project’s primary objective is to establish common, consistent
methods for application security assessments standards that
organizations can use as guidance on what tasks should be completed, how
the tasks should be completed, who should be involved and what level of
assessment is appropriate based on business requirements.

This project will not define how to technically to conduct an assessment
(refer to OWASP Testing Project); it is instead meant to tie business
operations and information management practices to application security
in order to establish a common, consistent set of standards which
provide guidance in conducting such assessments.

## Overall Roadmap Phases

**Phase I – Project Approach**: Comment Period for Proposed Project
Approach, Solicit Contributor Support

**Phase II – Application Assessment Definitions:** Establish core
assessment definitions to ensure common base terminology.

**Phase III – Assessment Context:** Establish standard assessment
context, selection, qualification and process frameworks.

**Phase IV – Assessment Levels:** Establish a common set of application
assessment levels to be used as business guidance to ensure conducting
appropriate level based on business-application-security requirements.

**Phase V – OWASP Integration:** Document integration components and
linkages with existing and underway OWASP projects.

## Per Phase Project Objectives

**Phase I – Project Approach and Objectives** Project Objective: Solicit
Contributor feedback to ensure the most effective and widely supported
approach. Target Time Frame: August, 2006 Current Status: Call for
Volunteers Contributors: Reviewers:

**Phase II – Application Assessment Definitions** Project Objective:
Establish common business application and security assessment type’s
definitions. Target Time Frame: September, 2006 Current Status: Call for
Volunteers Contributors: Reviewers:

**Phase III – Assessment Context** Project Objective: Define standard
application assessment process in SWIM flow chart. Target Time Frame:
October, 2006 Current Status: Call for Volunteers Contributors:
Reviewers:

**Phase III – Assessment Context** Project Objective: Define standard
assessment scope of work per application type. Includes standard testing
boundaries and requirements/needs placed upon end user requesting
assessment. Target Time Frame: October, 2006 Current Status: Call for
Volunteers Contributors: Reviewers:

**Phase III – Assessment Context** Project Objective: Plot where within
standard System Development Lifecycle (SDLC) application security
assessment steps should be defined and conducted. Target Time Frame:
October, 2006 Current Status: Call for Volunteers Contributors:
Reviewers:

**Phase III – Assessment Context** Project Objective: Establish common
set of assessor qualifications and evaluation criteria to facilitate end
service user ability to determine competence per assessment type. Target
Time Frame: October, 2006 Current Status: Call for Volunteers
Contributors: Reviewers:

**Phase IV – Assessment Levels** Project Objective: Establish assessment
level system common terminology and decision criteria - Included is
analysis of potentially corresponding security measurements (i.e. common
security metrics, security assurance/maturity models, related
legislation, other standards, etc.). Target Time Frame: December, 2006
Current Status: In hold based on outcome of Phase I and II. Calling for
future volunteers. Contributors: Reviewers:

**Phase IV – Assessment Levels** Project Objective: Create assessment
levels based on previous Phase III objective. Define assessment depth,
testing components required, and level of tool usage/type (not product
names) of tools used per level. Target Time Frame: March, 2007 Current
Status: In hold based on outcome of Phase I and II. Calling for future
volunteers. Contributors: Reviewers:

**Phase IV – Assessment Levels** Project Objective: Document
corresponding linkages between assessment levels and common security
metrics, security assurance/maturity models, related legislation, other
documented national standards defined as component of first Phase III
objective. Target Time Frame: May, 2007 Current Status: In hold based on
outcome of Phase I and II. Contributors: Reviewers:

**Phase IV – Assessment Levels** Project Objective: Establish guidance
parameters to allow organizations to determine appropriate assessment
level based on business application to be assessed. Target Time Frame:
May, 2007 Current Status: In hold based on outcome of Phase I and II.
Calling for future volunteers. Contributors: Reviewers:

**Phase V – OWASP Integration:** Project Objective: Document integration
components and linkages with existing and underway OWASP projects.
Target Time Frame: July, 2007 Current Status: In hold based on outcome
of Phases I through III. Contributors: Reviewers:

[Category:OWASP Application Security Assessment Standards
Project](Category:OWASP_Application_Security_Assessment_Standards_Project "wikilink")