*Sent to owasp-all mailing list on 17 April 2007* __NOEDITSECTION__

## OWASP Newsletter \#8 (17-Apr-2007)

A bit later than normal, welcome to the 8th OWASP Newsletter, featuring
the [OWASP Spring Of Code 2007](OWASP_Spring_Of_Code_2007 "wikilink"),
details on the [6th AppSec
Conference](6th_OWASP_AppSec_Conference_-_Italy_2007 "wikilink"), the
[Code Review Project](:Category:OWASP_Code_Review_Project "wikilink"),
the [WeBekci Project](:Category:OWASP_WeBekci_Project "wikilink") and
the [OWASP Code Review
Project](:Category:OWASP_Code_Review_Project "wikilink") is seeking for
volunteers.

Note that we also scan blogs for OWASP references.

If you have any content to add to the next edition, feel free to add it
directly to its WIKI page ([OWASP Newsletter
9](OWASP_Newsletter_9 "wikilink")).

Sebastien Deleersnyder

Belgium Chapter Leader

## Featured Item: [OWASP Spring Of Code 2007](OWASP_Spring_Of_Code_2007 "wikilink")

We have received lots of [OWASP Spring Of Code 2007
Applications](OWASP_Spring_Of_Code_2007_Applications "wikilink")\! The
submission period is now closed. The OWASP board is now evaluating the
proposals and will publish the results as soon as possible.

## Featured Item: Milan (Italy) Conference Agenda details\!

Join us for our [6th AppSec
Conference](6th_OWASP_AppSec_Conference_-_Italy_2007 "wikilink") May
15-17 in Milan, Italy. Microsoft will be presenting "The Benefits of the
SDL initiative to Microsoft and its Customers" and there will be expert
talks on Web Services Security, Securing AJAX, the Microsoft Secure
Development Lifecycle, all the new OWASP projects, and much more.

## Featured Project: [OWASP Code Review Project](:Category:OWASP_Code_Review_Project "wikilink")

The OWASP Code Review project was concieved by Eoin Keary the OWASP
Ireland Founder and Chapter Lead. We are actively seeking techies to add
new sections as new web technologies emerge. Need help on this one,
don't be shy, all help appreciated.

View the [OWASP Code Review Project
Roadmap](OWASP_Code_Review_Project_Roadmap "wikilink").

## Featured Project: [OWASP WeBekci Project](:Category:OWASP_WeBekci_Project "wikilink")

WeBekci is a web based ModSecurity 2.x management tool. WeBekci is
written in PHP, Its backend is powered by MySQL and the frontend by
XAJAX framework. It will remove management overhead of ModSecurity 2.x.
You can configure modsecurity.conf, add special rules and watch system,
apache and modsecurity logs (only guardianlog has been implemented in
this version).

## Web Application Security Metrics Survey Participants Needed

Since meaningful web application security metrics are very lacking, the
[Web Application Security
Metrics](:Category:OWASP_Application_Security_Metrics_Project "wikilink")
seeks to identify and provide the web application security community
with a basic set of application security metrics that have been found by
contributors to be effective in measuring web application security
effectiveness.

Since this Project was launched, it has proven to be challenging to get
survey participants (e.g., customers too busy or have no metrics). As a
result, Bob Austin (the project leader) is turning directly to you:the
OWASP community. He would be very grateful to OWASP members who are
willing to take 30 minutes to complete a survey with him by phone
(and/or to support collection of metric data from an organization you
support). The key data he seeks is as follows:

  - Description of Metric,
  - why the metric was created,
  - how the metric is created,
  - source of the data used to produce the metric,
  - and how is the metric used.

Bob can be contacted at austinb <at> korelogic <dot> com or
+1.804.379.4656

## Latest additions to the WIKI

#### New Pages

  - [‎Denver February 2007
    meeting](‎Denver_February_2007_meeting "wikilink")
  - [‎6th OWASP AppSec Conference - Italy
    2007/Agenda](‎6th_OWASP_AppSec_Conference_-_Italy_2007/Agenda "wikilink")
  - [‎Comprehensive list of Threats to Authentication Procedures and
    Data](‎Comprehensive_list_of_Threats_to_Authentication_Procedures_and_Data "wikilink")
  - [‎WebScarab SSL
    Certificates](‎WebScarab_SSL_Certificates "wikilink")

#### Updated pages

Updated chapter pages:

  - [Taiwan](Taiwan "wikilink")
  - [Phoenix](Phoenix "wikilink")
  - [New Jersey](New_Jersey "wikilink")
  - [Switzerland](Switzerland "wikilink")
  - [OWASP Community](OWASP_Community "wikilink")
  - [Greece](Greece "wikilink")
  - [Belgium](Belgium "wikilink")
  - [Denver](Denver "wikilink")
  - [Washington DC](Washington_DC "wikilink")
  - [Boston](Boston "wikilink")
  - [London](London "wikilink")
  - [Virginia (Northern
    Virginia)](Virginia_\(Northern_Virginia\) "wikilink")
  - [San Francisco](San_Francisco "wikilink")
  - [SoCal](SoCal "wikilink")

Other pages:

  - [OWASP Spring Of Code 2007
    Applications](OWASP_Spring_Of_Code_2007_Applications "wikilink")
  - [Testing for Directory
    Traversal](Testing_for_Directory_Traversal "wikilink")
  - [Testing for Session Management
    Schema](Testing_for_Session_Management_Schema_\(OWASP-SM-001\) "wikilink")
  - [OWASP Education
    Presentation‎](OWASP_Education_Presentation‎ "wikilink")
  - [Phishing](Phishing "wikilink")
  - [Comprehensive list of Threats to Authentication Procedures and
    Data](Comprehensive_list_of_Threats_to_Authentication_Procedures_and_Data "wikilink")
  - [Authentication Error‎](Authentication_Error‎ "wikilink")
  - [:Category:OWASP Interceptor
    Project](:Category:OWASP_Interceptor_Project "wikilink")
  - [:Category:OWASProfiler
    Project](:Category:OWASProfiler_Project "wikilink")
  - [OWASP AppSec Conference
    Sponsors](OWASP_AppSec_Conference_Sponsors "wikilink")
  - [:Category:OWASP WebGoat
    Project](:Category:OWASP_WebGoat_Project "wikilink")
  - [Fuzzing](Fuzzing "wikilink")
  - [:Category:OWASP WeBekci
    Project](:Category:OWASP_WeBekci_Project "wikilink")
  - [Main Page](Main_Page "wikilink")
  - [:Category:OWASP AJAX Security
    Project](:Category:OWASP_AJAX_Security_Project "wikilink")
  - [OWASP Code Review Guide Table of
    Contents](OWASP_Code_Review_Guide_Table_of_Contents "wikilink")
  - [Java Security Frameworks](Java_Security_Frameworks "wikilink")
  - [OWASP Java Table of
    Contents](OWASP_Java_Table_of_Contents "wikilink")
  - [PDF Attack Filter for Apache mod
    rewrite](PDF_Attack_Filter_for_Apache_mod_rewrite "wikilink")
  - [Member Offers](Member_Offers "wikilink")
  - [Data Validation](Data_Validation "wikilink")
  - [OWASP Application Security
    FAQ](OWASP_Application_Security_FAQ "wikilink")
  - [Phoenix/Tools](Phoenix/Tools "wikilink")
  - [OWASP Tiger](OWASP_Tiger "wikilink")

#### New Documents & Presentations from chapters

For a complete list of chapter presentations see [the online table of
presentations](OWASP_Education_Presentation "wikilink").

#### Latest Blog entries

  - [Lists of tools for VMWare
    box](http://blogs.owasp.org/diniscruz/2007/03/26/lists-of-tools-for-vmware-box/)
  - [Today
    mantra](http://blogs.owasp.org/orizon/2007/03/19/today-mantra/)

#### OWASP Community

  - **May 15 (18:00h) - [Rochester chapter
    meeting](Rochester "wikilink")**
  - **May 10 (18:00h) - [Belgium chapter meeting](Belgium "wikilink")**
  - **May 9 (18:00h) - [Toronto chapter meeting](Toronto "wikilink")**
  - '''May 9 (18:00h) - [Ottawa Chapter Meeting](Ottawa "wikilink") '''
  - **May 8 (18:00h) - [Washington DC (N. VA) chapter
    meeting](Virginia_\(Northern_Virginia\) "wikilink")**
  - **May 2 (18:30h) - [Boston chapter meeting](Boston "wikilink")**
  - **May 1 (18:00h) - [Melbourne chapter
    meeting](Melbourne "wikilink")**
  - **May 21 (14:00h) - [2nd OWASP Israel mini
    conference](Israel "wikilink")**
  - **Apr 26 (17:00h) - [Switzerland chapter meeting and "Swiss Security
    Dinner"](Switzerland "wikilink")**
  - **Apr 20 (19:00h) - [Hong Kong chapter meeting - Objectives for
    2007](Hong_Kong "wikilink")**
  - **Apr 17 (18:00h) - [Rochester chapter
    meeting](Rochester "wikilink")**
  - **Apr 12 (18:00h) - [Netherlands chapter
    meeting](Netherlands "wikilink")**
  - **Apr 11 (18:00h) - [Toronto chapter meeting](Toronto "wikilink")**
  - **Apr 10 (18:00h) - [Washington DC (N. VA) chapter
    meeting](Virginia_\(Northern_Virginia\) "wikilink")**
  - **Apr 4 (18:30h) - [Boston chapter meeting](Boston "wikilink")**
  - **Apr 3 (18:00h) - [Melbourne chapter
    meeting](Melbourne "wikilink")**
  - **Mar 30 -
    \[<http://www.owasp.org/index.php/Italy#March_30th.2C_2007_-_Master_in_Security_-_University_of_Rome_.22La_Sapienza.22>|
    Italy@Master in Security at "La Sapienza"\]**

## OWASP references in the Media / Blogs

  - [SANS Launches Security Certification for
    Programmers](http://www.windowsitpro.com/Article/ArticleID/95598/Windows_95598.html)
  - [Web Application Remediation - OWASP San Antonio Meeting
    Tomorrow](http://denimgroup.typepad.com/denim_group/2007/03/web_application.html)
  - [OWASP Meeting and “Swiss Security
    Dinner”](http://www.disenchant.ch/blog/owasp-meeting-and-swiss-security-dinner/54)
  - [OWASP Testing
    Guide 2.0](http://ajaxian.com/archives/owasp-testing-guide-20)
  - [OWASP Spring of
    Code 2007](http://shiflett.org/blog/2007/mar/owasp-spring-of-code-2007)
  - [JBroFuzz 0.5 from OWASP - Stateless Network Protocol
    Fuzzer](http://www.darknet.org.uk/2007/03/jbrofuzz-05-from-owasp-stateless-network-protocol-fuzzer/)
  - [OWASP AppSec Conference -
    Italy 2007](http://www.disenchant.ch/blog/owasp-appsec-conference-italy-2007/60)
  - [WhiteHat Security Chief Technology Officer Jeremiah Grossman To
    Present at OWASP New York/New Jersey
    Meeting](http://www.javascriptsearch.com/news/press/070413WhiteHat.html)
  - [Security's New
    School](http://www.darkreading.com/document.asp?doc_id=120550&WT.svl=news1_1)