<table>
<thead>
<tr class="header">
<th><p>width="700" align="center"</p></th>
<th><p><br />
</p></th>
<th><p>width="500" align="center"</p></th>
<th><p><br />
</p></th>
</tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>align="right"</p></td>
<td><figure>
<img src="OWASP_Inactive_Banner.jpg" title="OWASP_Inactive_Banner.jpg" alt="OWASP_Inactive_Banner.jpg" width="800" /><figcaption>OWASP_Inactive_Banner.jpg</figcaption>
</figure></td>
<td><p>align="right"</p></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

#### Main

## Description

The OWASP Exams project will establish the model by which the OWASP
community can create and distribute CC-licensed exams for use by
educators. The purpose of the exams is to improve the effectiveness of
OWASP training through the use of exams as a means of measurement and
student progress tracking. The project will include creation of a set of
CC-licensed exams, a model for exam usage, and a roadmap for future exam
creation. The exams will be distributed in this project site as well as
in Moodle (an open source LMS) format so that they can be re-purposed
for use in any system or an educator can use them directly in Moodle to
administer exams to students. Ideally the exams will be tied to OWASP
Academies learning blocks so that there is good learning and training
content that can be used to motivate the usage of the exams. This
project will also include study aids for use in learning material
covered by the exams.

## Components

### Exams

As exams are ready we will add them to this page for those who want a
version of the exam outside of the Moodle LMS.

The exams that are available in this project are:

  - [OWASP Top 10 Threats and Mitigations Exam - Single
    Select](OWASP_Top_10_Threats_and_Mitigations_Exam_-_Single_Select "wikilink")
  - [Corresponding Multiple Select
    questions](OWASP_Top_10_Threats_and_Mitigations_Exam_-_Multiple_Select "wikilink")

The multiple select exam contains a sub-set of questions from the single
select exam, however, they have been changed so that there are multiple
correct answers to choose from. We are interested in feedback on which
type of exam people prefer. Multiple select exams are much harder and
the answers sometime feel more ambiguous. Single select exams are easier
since you only need to select the one best answer to get the question
right.

### Moodle Learning Management System

You can find the OWASP Academies Moodle learning management system (LMS)
here - <http://www.owaspa.org/moodle>

The Moodle learning management system will contain eLearning courses to
teach OWASP related application security content related to the exams in
this project. The LMS will also host exams from this project so that
students can log into the system, take an exam and get a grade.
Independent students can use this system and educators can also
administer an exam for a class or multiple classes of students.

The first deliverables of this project on the LMS are:

  - [OWASP Top 10 Threats and
    Mitigations](http://www.owaspa.org/moodle/) eLearning
    [SCORM](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sharable_Content_Object_Reference_Model)
    course.
  - [OWASP Top 10 Threats and
    Mitigations](http://www.owaspa.org/moodle/) eLearning
    [SCORM](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sharable_Content_Object_Reference_Model)
    exam.

### TeamMentor Security Knowledge Base

The TeamMentor security knowledge base is a collection of articles that
students can use to learn application security concepts before or after
taking an exam. This information can be used to brush up on concepts
pre-exam or can be used as part of continuous education and during the
application of application security concepts on the job.

The TeamMentor knowledge base consists of the following components
(click on the links for access to each):

  - [TeamMentor OWASP Edition](http://owasp.securityinnovation.com).
    This is a web application that contains a browseable, searchable
    collection of free application security articles focused on OWASP
    concepts.
  - [TeamMentor OWASP Library
    Source](https://github.com/SecurityInnovation/OWASP-TeamMentor-Library).
    This is a GitHub repository that contains all of the XML files that
    make up the OWASP library. You can download the library and make
    changes to it in order to meet your particular needs. If you make
    changes to the files in the library itself, be sure to retain
    library integrity by using the Guidance Explorer authoring tool and
    testing your library before checking any files into the source
    repository. We will periodically update the TeamMentor OWASP Edition
    instance with changes made by the community to the GitHub library.
  - [Guidance Explorer Authoring
    Tool](http://guidanceexplorer.codeplex.com/). This is a .NET
    application that you can use to edit library files or create new
    library articles. Please use this tool when making changes to the
    library so that you preserve library integrity.

#### Project About

#### Sponsor

![Image:SILogoHoriz-300x49.jpg](SILogoHoriz-300x49.jpg
"Image:SILogoHoriz-300x49.jpg")

__NOTOC__ <headertabs />

[Exams Project](Category:OWASP_Project "wikilink")
[Category:OWASP_Document](Category:OWASP_Document "wikilink") [OWASP
Alpha Quality
Document](Category:OWASP_Alpha_Quality_Document "wikilink")