### Agenda for OWASP Board Meeting: 04/06/2009

## Membership Update

INDIVIDUALS

  - Total Number of Individual Memberships: 550
  - New Memberships in March: 58
  - Renewals in March: 3
  - Lost memberships in March (did not renew): 14
  - March Income from Individual Memberships: $3050
  - Portion allocated to local chapters: $1140

ORGANIZATIONS

  - Total Number of Organization Memberships: 32
  - New Memberships in March: 0
  - Renewals in March: 3(Symantec, Breach, Cigital)
  - Lost memberships in March (did not renew): 0
  - March Income from Corporate Memberships: $15,000
  - Portion allocated to local chapters: $6,000

FUNDS

  - March Funds from Individual Memberships: $1910
  - March Funds from Corporate Memberships: $9,000
  - Total Funds for March: $10,910

## Conferences Update

`EU09`
`DC09`
`Ireland09`

## Board Procedures

` - APPROVED: Board will capture actions and approvals and communicate them to each committee`

## Committee Updates

  - [Global Membership
    Committee](Global_Membership_Committee "wikilink") Update - Brennan

` - Action: reduce cost of shipping membership kit and propose solution`
` - Discussion: how to use chapters to drive education members`

  - [Global Industry Committee](Global_Industry_Committee "wikilink")
    Update - Brennan

<!-- end list -->

  - [Global Conferences
    Committee](Global_Conferences_Committee "wikilink") Update - Kate

` - Action: Put a "Call for 2010 Conferences" up`

  - [Global Projects Committee](Global_Projects_Committee "wikilink")
    Update - Dinis

` - New assessment criteria and project governance documents in progress`
` - APPROVED: projects that don't respond to project questionnaire will be marked as inactive`
` - Kirsten has assembled a list of which alpha projects have not changed since 12/2007`
` - Action: consider establishing a team to do reviews/quality work (need to make it attractive somehow)`
` - APPROVED: every project needs to have standard "Project Summary Table" (on main page or in a tab) that is maintained by the project committee`
` - APPROVED: establish the "Grant Summary Table" (below PST) for all grants of money to projects`
` - Action (to Larry): Can the PST and GST be stored somewhere else and be included automatically?`

  - [Global Chapter Committee](Global_Chapter_Committee "wikilink")
    Update - Seba

` - Nice work on procedures captured in Chapter Leader Handbook`

  - [Global Education Committee](Global_Education_Committee "wikilink")
    Update - Seba

` - Broad goals look very good`
` - Action: establish specific project timeline and deliverables`

## OWASP Technology Infrastructure

  - Wiki - Larry

` - One version behind (upgrade requires porting extensions)`
` - Enabled "tab" feature to help stop scrolling`
` - Performance enhancements`
` - Added support for integrating feeds into wiki pages`
` - Moved to new server hardware (old one has hardware problems)`

  - Mailing Lists - Larry

` - Action: evaluate Google Groups as part of forum`

  - SalesForce.com - Tom

` - Free service for non-profits - investigation in progress`