## The new OWASP Testing Guide

January 2007: **The OWASP Testing Guide v2 is completed\!**

  - You can read it on line here: [Testing Guide
    Project](http://www.owasp.org/index.php/Category:OWASP_Testing_Project)

## Project History

**AoC Candidate:** Matteo Meucci

**Project Coordinator:** [Eoin Keary](User:EoinKeary "wikilink")
**Project Progress:** 99.9% Complete - [Progress
Page](OWASP_Autumn_of_Code_2006_-_Projects:_Testing_Guide_-_Progress "wikilink")

### Background and Motivation

**History Behind Project** The Testing guide originated in 2003 with Dan
Cuthbert as one of the original editors. It was handed over to Eoin
Keary in 2005 and transformed into a wiki. Being a wiki it is easier for
people to contribute and should make updating much easier. [Matteo
Meucci](User:Mmeucci "wikilink") has decided to take on the Testing
guide (which is not a trivial feat) and update it.

**Problem to be Addressed** Many additional sections should be updated
and reviewed. Also additional areas of discovery should be addressed.
the guide currently covers alot but could (and should) cover much more.

**Benefit to OWASP Members and Community** A reference to the testing
community that is updated by the community. It should provide many of
the answers one would look for when testing the security of a web
application.

### Goals and Deliverables

The guide to be updated with a defined list of topics and the current
guide reviewed. the list of additional topics has been agreed with the
AoC.

**Plan of Approach** A review of the existing material is required
first. Any material that required an update shall be rectified then. A
defined list of additional topics shall then be added. They must be
reviewed also for quality.

  - Please refer to the [progress
    page](http://www.owasp.org/index.php/OWASP_Autumn_of_Code_2006_-_Projects:_Testing_Guide_-_Progress)
    for updated information about the project

Here is the working [Testing
Guide](http://www.owasp.org/index.php/OWASP_Testing_Guide_v2_Table_of_Contents)
Here is the [Review
Panel](http://www.owasp.org/index.php/OWASP_Testing_Guide_v2_Review_Panel)

### Feedback and Participation

We hope you find the information in the OWASP Testing project useful.
Please contribute back to the project by sending your comments,
questions, and suggestions to the OWASP Testing mailing list. Thanks\!

To join the OWASP Testing mailing list or view the archives, please
visit the [subscription
page](http://lists.owasp.org/mailman/listinfo/owasp-testing).

If you want to contribute, please view the Index and post a message on
ml. Tell us what par. you want to write, then read the rule to write.

### Template

Here is the template for writing a new paragraph in Chapter 4:
[Template Paragraph Testing](Template_Paragraph_Testing_AoC "wikilink")
(Updated 19th October)

### Rule to write a paragraph

[Rule to write a paragraph](Rule_To_Write_AoC "wikilink")

**Deliverables**

A revised and updated Testing Guide which shall be more extensive than
ever before.

### Risks and Rewards

The size of this task can not be underestimated. It is a large
time-consuming task.

**Main Risks** Non completion due to size. Overlap of the guide with
other parts of the site.

**Rewards of Successful Project**

A extensive and nearly exhaustive guide on web application security
testing.

[Category:OWASP Testing Project
AoC](Category:OWASP_Testing_Project_AoC "wikilink") [Autumn of Code 2006
- Projects: Testing Guide](Category:_OWASP_Project "wikilink")