## No More Signatures: Defending Web Applications from 0-Day Attacks with ModProfiler Using Traffic Profiling

Web application security is a big problem, yet there is never enough
time to dedicate to solving the issue or, at least, making it smaller.
To help with this, we embarked on a project that would enable you to
tighten the security of your web applications with little effort. The
project, called ModProfiler, aims to provide best-possible protection
for web applications by analysing web application traffic passing by.
This new open source tool builds on the success of ModSecurity (also
open source), which is generally considered to be the most widely
deployed web application firewall.

The premise is simple: ModProfiler works by observing what's valid and
what's not, resulting with a tight application shield designed around
the positive security model concept. The process of shield construction
is not as simple, but the complexity is hidden away. This talk,
presented by Ivan Ristic, the author of the tool, will give you an
insight into the technology behind the scenes, and enable you to get the
most out of it.

## About Ivan Ristic

Ivan Ristic is the Vice President of Security Research for Breach
Security, Inc. as a result of the recent acquisition of Thinking Stone
Ltd. and its ModSecurity open source web application firewall. At Breach
Security, Ristic will focus primarily on educating the market about the
security risks associated with conducting business on the web. He will
also continue to improve the open source ModSecurity project as well as
incorporate ModSecurity technology into Breach Security’s WebDefend
architecture. Prior to moving to the computer security field, Ristic
spent a number of years working as a developer, system architect, and
technical director in the software development industry. He authored
[Apache Security](http://www.apachesecurity.net) for O’Reilly, a concise
yet comprehensive web security guide for administrators, system
architects, and programmers. Ristic earned a BSc with honors in
Information Technology and Computing from the Open University. He also
completed coursework at the Faculty of Electrical Engineering,
University of Belgrade.