## Background

Character encoding is the process of mapping characters, numbers and
other symbols to a standard format. Typically, this is done to create a
message ready for transmission between sender and receiver. It is, in
simple terms, the conversion of characters (belonging to different
languages like English, Chinese, Greek or any other known language) into
bytes. An example of a widely used character encoding scheme is the
American Standard Code for Information Interchange (ASCII) that
initially used 7-bit codes. More recent examples of encoding schemes
would be the Unicode UTF-8 and UTF-16 computing industry standards.

In the space of application security and due to the plethora of encoding
schemes available, character encoding has a popular misuse. It is being
used for encoding malicious injection strings in a way that obfuscates
them. This can lead to the bypass of input validation filters, or take
advantage of particular ways in which browsers render encoded text.

## Input Encoding – Filter Evasion

Web applications usually employ different types of input filtering
mechanisms to limit the input that can be submitted by the user. If
these input filters are not implemented sufficiently well, it is
possible to slip a character or two through these filters. For instance,
a / can be represented as 2F (hex) in ASCII, while the same character
(/) is encoded as C0 AF in Unicode (2 byte sequence). Therefore, it is
important for the input filtering control to be aware of the encoding
scheme used. If the filter is found to be detecting only UTF-8 encoded
injections, a different encoding scheme may be employed to bypass this
filter.

## Output Encoding – Server & Browser Consensus

Web browsers need to be aware of the encoding scheme used to coherently
display a web page. Ideally, this information should be provided to the
browser in the HTTP header (“Content-Type”) field, as shown below:

    <nowiki>Content-Type: text/html; charset=UTF-8</nowiki>

or through HTML META tag (“META HTTP-EQUIV”), as shown below:

    <nowiki><META http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=ISO-8859-1"></nowiki>

It is through these character encoding declarations that the browser
understands which set of characters to use when converting bytes to
characters. Note that the content type mentioned in the HTTP header has
precedence over the META tag declaration.

CERT describes it here as follows:

''Many web pages leave the character encoding ("charset" parameter in
HTTP) undefined. In earlier versions of HTML and HTTP, the character
encoding was supposed to default to ISO-8859-1 if it wasn't defined. In
fact, many browsers had a different default, so it was not possible to
rely on the default being ISO-8859-1. HTML version 4 legitimizes this -
if the character encoding isn't specified, any character encoding can be
used.

If the web server doesn't specify which character encoding is in use, it
can't tell which characters are special. Web pages with unspecified
character encoding work most of the time because most character sets
assign the same characters to byte values below 128. But which of the
values above 128 are special? Some 16-bit character-encoding schemes
have additional multi-byte representations for special characters such
as "\<". Some browsers recognize this alternative encoding and act on
it. This is "correct" behavior, but it makes attacks using malicious
scripts much harder to prevent. The server simply doesn't know which
byte sequences represent the special characters''

Therefore in the event of not receiving the character encoding
information from the server, the browser either attempts to ‘guess’ the
encoding scheme or reverts to a default scheme. In some cases, the user
explicitly sets the default encoding in the browser to a different
scheme. Any such mismatch in the encoding scheme used by the web page
(server) and the browser may cause the browser to interpret the page in
a manner that is unintended or unexpected.

#### Encoded Injections

All the scenarios given below form only a subset of the various ways
obfuscation can be achieved to bypass input filters. Also, the success
of encoded injections depends on the browser in use. For example,
US-ASCII encoded injections were previously successful only in IE
browser but not in Firefox. Therefore, it may be noted that encoded
injections, to a large extent, are browser dependent.

#### Basic Encoding

Consider a basic input validation filter that protects against injection
of single quote character. In this case the following injection would
easily bypass this filter:

    <nowiki><SCRIPT>alert(String.fromCharCode(88,83,83))</SCRIPT></nowiki>

String.fromCharCode Javascript function takes the given Unicode values
and returns the corresponding string. This is one of the most basic
forms of encoded injections. Another vector that can be used to bypass
this filter is:

    <IMG SRC=javascript:alert(&quot ;XSS&quot ;)>

    <IMG SRC=javascript:alert(&#34 ;XSS&#34 ;)> (Numeric reference)

The above uses HTML Entities to construct the injection string. HTML
Entities encoding is used to display characters that have a special
meaning in HTML. For instance, ‘\>’ works as a closing bracket for a
HTML tag. In order to actually display this character on the web page
HTML character entities should be inserted in the page source. The
injections mentioned above are one way of encoding. There are numerous
other ways in which a string can be encoded (obfuscated) in order to
bypass the above filter.

#### Hex Encoding

Hex, short for Hexadecimal, is a base 16 numbering system i.e it has 16
different values from 0 to 9 and A to F to represent various characters.
Hex encoding is another form of obfuscation that is sometimes used to
bypass input validation filters. For instance, hex encoded version of
the string <IMG SRC=javascript:alert('XSS')> is

    <nowiki><IMG SRC=%6A%61%76%61%73%63%72%69%70%74%3A%61%6C%65%72%74%28%27%58%53%53%27%29></nowiki>

A variation of the above string is given below. Can be used in case ‘%’
is being filtered:

    <nowiki><IMG SRC=&#x6A&#x61&#x76&#x61&#x73&#x63&#x72&#x69&#x70&#x74&#x3A&#x61&#x6C&#x65&#x72&#x74&#x28&#x27&#x58&#x53&#x53&#x27&#x29></nowiki>

There are other encoding schemes, such as Base64 and Octal, that may be
used for obfuscation. Although, every encoding scheme may not work every
time, a bit of trial and error coupled with intelligent manipulations
would definitely reveal the loophole in a weakly built input validation
filter.

#### UTF-7 Encoding

UTF-7 encoding of

<SCRIPT>

alert(‘XSS’);

</SCRIPT>

is as below

    <nowiki>+ADw-SCRIPT+AD4-alert('XSS');+ADw-/SCRIPT+AD4-</nowiki>

For the above script to work, the browser has to interpret the web page
as encoded in UTF-7.

#### Multi-byte Encoding

Variable-width encoding is another type of character encoding scheme
that uses codes of varying lengths to encode characters. Multi-Byte
Encoding is a type of variable-width encoding that uses varying number
of bytes to represent a character. Multi-byte encoding is primarily used
to encode characters that belong to a large character set e.g. Chinese,
Japanese and Korean.

Multibyte encoding has been used in the past to bypass standard input
validation functions and carry out cross site scripting and SQL
injection attacks.

## References

<http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Encode_(semiotics)>

<http://ha.ckers.org/xss.html>

<http://www.cert.org/tech_tips/malicious_code_mitigation.html>

<http://www.w3schools.com/HTML/html_entities.asp>

<http://www.iss.net/security_center/advice/Intrusions/2000639/default.htm>

<http://searchsecurity.techtarget.com/expert/KnowledgebaseAnswer/0,289625,sid14_gci1212217_tax299989,00.html>

<http://www.joelonsoftware.com/articles/Unicode.html>