February 2018 meet on February 24, 2018 (Saturday) - 11:00 am

Note - OWASP Delhi chapter meets are free and open to everyone. Prior
registrations are mandatory in order to be allowed to attend the meetup

Note - This is a combined meetup with null Delhi Chapter

For Registration/RSVP please click Here

Session Details/Agenda:

11:15 am - 11:30 am: Introductions & Chapter Updates

11:30 am - 11:45 am: InfoSec News Bytes

11:45 am - 12:30 pm: WiFi Security Beyond Password Cracking by Mohit
Kumar Rajain

12:30 pm - 12:50 am: Tea/Coffee/Networking Break

01:00 pm - 01:50 pm: AppSec Testing Beyond Pen Test by Bhushan Gupta

02:00 pm - 02:15 pm: Feedback and Topic Discussion for Next Month

When: February 24th, 2018 (Saturday) - 11:00 am (Please be on time)

Where: Sapient

Unitech Infospace SEZ

Tower-B (Unit 1 Cafeteria), Building No-8

Sector 21,

Old Delhi - Gurgaon Road

Dundahera, Gurgaon 122016

Haryana, India

How to reach venue: Take Rapid Metro from Sikanderpur Metro station to
Vodafone Belvedere Towers (2nd Stop). A free shuttle operates from the
entry gate of the metro station to Udyog Vihar every 5 minutes. It drops
at exit gate no. 2 of Infospace. The shuttle takes around 15 minutes to
reach the venue.

Nearest Landmark: Trident Hotel.(Straight from Trident Hotel towards
Dundahera Village and left from T Point, Unitech building will be on the
right. RBS and Amdocs offices are in the same complex.)

Nearest Metro Stations:

· IndusIand Bank Cyber City Rapid Metro Station

· MG Road Metro Station

· Sikanderpur Metro Station

Important Note - Please carry an ID proof along with you which will be
required for Security check

Talk Details:

AppSec Testing Beyond Pen Test by Bhushan Gupta

Abstract: Web application security has a broad scope that spans from
network communication to browser behaviors to backend applications and
finally to database servers. Validating security of all these components
can be a daunting task and take a considerable effort. Penetration is
the most prevalent testing method used today for validating web
application security. The question is, “does it cover all the basis?”
Penetration testing is a black-box type testing that a QA engineer
applies from the hacker’s perspective. While it provides a comfort
level, it does not ensure that the application has been developed with
security in mind and that it meets the three basic requirements of
security namely, Confidentiality, Integrity, and Availability (CIA). The
CIA framework builds intrinsic security and thus ensures an increased
confidence level. This framework should be complemented with the
penetration testing.

This talk focuses on how to align the security validation of a web
application with the three basic elements of security namely,
Confidentiality, Integrity, and Availability (CIA). The test
effectiveness can be achieved by analyzing the requirements of each
element and identifying the potential breaches that can compromise each
element. The efficiency should be built by relating these breaches with
the known OWASP Top 10 and other vulnerabilities and, leveraging that
knowledge to identify the testing approach - static and dynamic
throughout the SDLC.

Bio: Bhushan Gupta is a Principal consultant at Gupta Consulting LLC.,
Bhushan Gupta is passionate about development methods and tools that
yield more secure web applications especially in the agile software
development environment. As a researcher, he has a keen interest in
understanding and applying fundamental principles and known
methodologies to develop dependable and secure software solutions. His
interests extend to Social Engineering and Attack Surface Analysis.
Bhushan worked at Hewlett-Packard for 13 years in various roles
including software quality lead, engineer, software process architect,
and software productivity manager. He then developed a strong interest
in web application security while working as a quality engineer for Nike
Inc. Bhushan has been studying various facets of web application
security and promoting how to apply common sense approach to build
secure solutions. He is a certified Six Sigma Black Belt (HP and ASQ)
and an adjunct faculty member at the Oregon Institute of Technology in
Software Engineering. To learn more about Bhushan’s contributions to
SDLC, visit www.bgupta.com

WiFi Security Beyond Password Cracking

Abstract: The speaker will demonstrate the following attacks on wifi
networks:

1\. Packet injection in protocols such as DHCP, DNS, etc.

2\. Phishing wifi clients using captive portal

Bio: Mohit is a Network security Enthusiast and Final Year Btech ( ECE )
student @ NIT Delhi