### [Back to the AppSec DC 10 page](OWASP_AppSec_DC_2010 "wikilink")

**Q. What does MMX stand for?**

A. MMX is 2010 in [roman
numerals](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Roman_numerals) and is in
reference to the year.

**Q. What will it cost?**

A. Ticketing prices are on the main page.

## Call For Papers

**Q. What is the Open Web Application Security Project (OWASP)?**

The Open Web Application Security Project (OWASP) is a worldwide free
and open community focused on improving the security of application
software. Our mission is to make application security visible, so that
people and organizations can make informed decisions about true
application security risks. Everyone is free to participate in OWASP and
all of our materials are available under a free and open software
license. The OWASP Foundation is a 501c3 not-for-profit charitable
organization that ensures the ongoing availability and support for our
work with your support.

**Q. How many speaking slots are there?**

The schedule for AppSec DC will largely be based on the number of
quality presentations we receive. While we have an outline for the
conference schedule we cannot solidify it until the CFP has completed.
In addition to the primary slots we will be selecting a small number of
alternate presenters who will receive a free pass to the conference in
return for being ready to present if there is a cancellation.

**Q. What are the submission deadlines?**

The CFP submission deadline is July 31st, with presentation material due
September 1st 2010.

**Q: Who is allowed to submit presentations?**

A: Original authors of presentations may submit presentations for
consideration. Third party representatives such as PR firms or Speaker
Representatives MAY NOT submit materials on behalf of a potential
speaker.

**Q: Why aren't Third Parties such as PR Firms allowed to submit
presentations?**

A: Due to potential copyright and intellectual property liability issues
as well as the need for OWASP to have direct contact with potential and
selected presenters to expedite selection and deliverable materials, we
require that only original authors of presentations submit for the Call
for Papers. Third party representatives such as PR firms or Speaker
Representatives MAY NOT submit materials on behalf of a potential
speaker.

**Q: How long will I have to wait before I am notified if I have been
accepted or denied?**

A: Due to the overwhelming response from the community the planning
committee needs more time to sift through all of the proposals that we
received. We feel that it is better to give each presentation a complete
review rather then meet a somewhat arbitrary deadline. Originally we
promised that we would respond to speakers within 15 business days of
the CFP closing.

**Q. Is there an honorarium for presenters?**

No. OWASP is committed to making its conferences available to the widest
possible audience. In order to do this OWASP keeps the entrance fees as
low as possible to make the conference accessible. As a result we are
unable to provide a monetary honorarium but we welcome our speakers as
our guests to the conference where they can network with other security
professionals.

**Q: I have been accepted. What are the materials that I have to turn in
and what are the deadlines?**

A: The following is a list of materials that are required from each
accepted presentation. Failure to proceed these materials by the
deadlines set forth for the event the presentation was accepted for will
result in of acceptance.

  - A confirmed [Speaker Agreement](Speaker_Agreement "wikilink")
  - Presentation in PowerPoint or Keynote format using the [OWASP
    Template](http://www.owasp.org/images/5/54/Presentation_template.ppt)
  - Detailed Bibliography of resources, co-authors, etc.
  - Optional White Paper for inclusion on CD

**Q: Do I have to submit a White Paper?**

A: No. We would certainly appreciate any White Papers that can be
included on the conference CD but they are not required. If you have
written an existing white paper to go along with your presentation,
please submit it with your CFP submission. Submissions with attached
White Papers will receive additional consideration.

**Q: What if I have a co-author who is not presenting. How do I cite the
person(s)?**

A: All co-authors and works that have been used should be cited in a
detailed bibliography that will be published on the Conference CD.

**Q: I have been accepted and would like to add co-presenters. Can I
still do this?**

A: No. Co-presenters should have been added at the time that the
Presentation was submitted. They may attend the conference and present
if they pay the full conference fee.

**Q: My PR company/friends/co-workers/family would like to come see me
give my presentation. Will they be allowed in for free?**

A: No. All guests of speakers must be registered and paid in full in
order to receive admission to the conference.

**Q: My company wants to donate and support OWASP as a 501(3)c
non-profit in exchange for resources at the Expo, what is the cost?**

A: Sponsorship information can be found
[here](https://www.owasp.org/images/3/36/Sponsorship_Form_update_DC.pdf).

**Q. I have more questions**

A: Email info(at)appsecdc.org concerning this event.