<table>
<thead>
<tr class="header">
<th><p>width="700" align="center"</p></th>
<th><p><br />
</p></th>
<th><p>width="500" align="center"</p></th>
<th><p><br />
</p></th>
</tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>align="right"</p></td>
<td><figure>
<img src="OWASP_Inactive_Banner.jpg" title="OWASP_Inactive_Banner.jpg" alt="OWASP_Inactive_Banner.jpg" width="800" /><figcaption>OWASP_Inactive_Banner.jpg</figcaption>
</figure></td>
<td><p>align="right"</p></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

#### Main

This project will have a two pronged approach designed to put more nails
in the single-factor method of authentication. First, we will create an
interactive portal where penetration testers are able to enter known
information about the target. This known information can then be broken
down and converted to create a large downloadable dictionary list that
has been customized to the target. This list will be added to a
comprehensive standard dictionary with the character conversions
performed on that as well. The result would be a large list of commonly
used passwords, dictionary words, target specific passwords, and various
derivitives of each which should cover the vast majority of passwords
used today.

The second prong of our approach will be to capture the results of all
data collected into a large database. This data will be hashed with
common hashing methods to create what will become the world's largest
rainbow tables. A user can provide us with a hash and we can do a lookup
against these tables to search for matching entries. The goal here is to
put a stop to unsalted password hashes for authentication.

We likely have one final non-technical objective here which is to
educate end-users on the proper creation of passwords. Maybe we even
have some sort of password generator based on a phrase that somebody
types in. If you are interested in contributing to the project, please
contact the Project Leader, Josh Sokol, at josh dot sokol at owasp dot
org.

#### Project About

__NOTOC__ <headertabs />

[Secure Password Project](Category:OWASP_Project "wikilink")
[Category:OWASP_Document](Category:OWASP_Document "wikilink") [OWASP
Alpha Quality
Document](Category:OWASP_Alpha_Quality_Document "wikilink")