**AoC Candidate:** Aaron M. Holmes

**Project Coordinator:** Jeff Williams

**Project Progress:** 50% Complete - [Progress
Page](OWASP_Autumn_of_Code_2006_-_Projects:_Website_and_Branding_-_Progress "wikilink")

## Background and Motivation

**History Behind Project**

The Open Web Application Security Project (OWASP) is an open community
dedicated to enabling organizations to develop, purchase, and maintain
applications that can be trusted. Our website provides information,
tools and valuable resources to the community and is a cost effective
medium for distributing up to date material worldwide. Given this
potential it is important that we focus on providing the best possible
experience for our users so that they may take advantage of all OWASP
resources.

Additionally, it is important for OWASP to identify itself as a trusted
and authoritative source. Our goal is to create a standard which all
OWASP projects and resources must uphold, as well as to create a brand
to aid in distinguishing OWASP resources from those that are available
elsewhere. Our intent is to provide an identity that is immediately
recognizable within the security community which also carries with it a
feeling of assurance.

**Problem to be Addressed**

The current OWASP.org website takes advantage of the community
collaboration and ease of editing features of Wiki-based websites.
However, the OWASP project is successfully growing in size and quickly
outgrowing its original home. There is a great opportunity here to
extend the existing site to provide a greater depth of functionality for
community members, better organization, and a more robust 'user
experience'. During this time it will also be beneficial to decide on a
new look and feel to the website which will align with the OWASP
branding and identity.

**Benefit to OWASP Members and Community**

OWASP members will benefit by:

  - Having content that is easier to navigate and locate
  - Taking advantage of the OWASP brand to gain trust within their work
  - Increased site functionality (to be identified)
  - Increased outreach and marketing of the OWASP resources, thus
    attracting more eyes and recognition

## Goals and Deliverables

**Plan of Approach**

We will immediately commence updating and creating new content pages as
required. Time will also be spent creating documents which will give in
depth detail for all deliverables including timelines. A design brief
will be prepared to ensure that all future work aligns with the branding
of OWASP and to minimize the risk of creating an image that is not
distinct or recognizable.

**Deliverables**

  - Design website template
  - Design print and promotional materials
  - Design logos, certified OWASP logos, and other imagery
  - Content updating and proofing (English)
  - Prepare guidelines and standards for OWASP projects
  - Prepare marketing brief discussing the identity of OWASP
  - Prepare website documentation for future developers
  - Develop features and functionality as identified by OWASP and
    community (Including web services and member only access pages)
  - Audit website with the help of other projects

## Risks and Rewards

**Main Risks**

This is a large project which relies on the support and cooperation of
the OWASP community. There is a risk that without proper planning time
will be wasted in creating designs and materials which do not align well
and do not provide for a disctinct identity.

**Rewards of Successful Project**

A successful project will allow OWASP to continue strong growth and gain
credibility as a trusted and beneficial group. By providing a better
user experience it will be easier for OWASP to gain traction with
individuals and organizations that are worried about putting too much
faith in 'grassroot' or 'Mickey Mouse' type communities; which are
considered to be too small, not dedicated, lack focus, and are not
reliable in the long-term. A professional identity for OWASP will help
alleviate these concerns by providing a professional look and feel which
will be instantly recognizable. This attention to detail will carry
through to all resources and services provided by OWASP, and is what
helps differentiate OWASP from others.