# Main

<div style="width:100%;height:90px;border:0,margin:0;overflow: hidden;">

![Incubator_big.jpg](Incubator_big.jpg "Incubator_big.jpg")

</div>

![<File:Owaspfauxbanklogo-big.png>](Owaspfauxbanklogo-big.png
"File:Owaspfauxbanklogo-big.png")

OWASP Faux Bank is a real-world type system with all 10 of OWASPs top 10
vulnerabilities implemented. The idea behind this project is to have a
website with vulnerabilities that developers can play with an exploit,
and then view the source code to see the site is vulnerable. OWASP Faux
Bank also features a "secure mode", which prevents exploits, so that
developers can also see how these vulnerabilities can be prevented
within web applications.

The full source code is available from GitHub at:
[github.com/thatcoderguy/owasp-faux-bank](http://github.com/thatcoderguy/owasp-faux-bank)

Currently OWASP Faux Bank is written in Classic ASP, but eventually
there will also be PHP and .Net versions written, so that developers of
these languages can also see how the vulnerabilities work.

OWASP Faux Bank is also running at:
[www.fauxbank.co.uk](http://www.fauxbank.co.uk) with all of the
vulnerabilities implemented.

## Project Leader

[Davie Elliott](mailto:davie.elliott@owasp.org)

I am a web developer with 11 years commercial experience, currently in a
Technical Director position for a small website company. I have an avid
interest in security; network and web application development, and have
written numerous pieces security software and also trained developers on
how to write secure code. I have my own website:
[www.thatcoderguy.co.uk](http://www.thatcoderguy.co.uk) which also hosts
my bi-weekly blog where I write about security and web development.

## Licensing

OWASP Faux Bank is free to use. It is licensed under the Apache 2.0
license, so you can copy, distribute and transmit the work, and you can
adapt it, and use it commercially, but all provided that you attribute
the work and if you alter, transform, or build upon this work, you may
distribute the resulting work only under the same or similar license to
this one.

## Email List

[Sign Up\!](https://lists.owasp.org/mailman/listinfo/owasp_faux_bank)

# The Vulnerabilities

This section will be properly fleshed out. For the moment, the first 5
vulnerabilities can be read about on my blog:

  - [Is your web application secure? – Part 1: Cross Site Request
    Forgery](http://www.thatcoderguy.co.uk/2014/05/13/is-your-web-application-secure-part-1-cross-site-request-forgery/)
    [Hacking Websites – Part 2: Cross Site
    Scripting](http://www.thatcoderguy.co.uk/2014/05/20/hacking-websites-part-2-cross-site-scripting/)
    [Hacking Websites – Part 3: Broken Authentication and Session
    Management](http://www.thatcoderguy.co.uk/2014/05/27/hacking-websites-part-3-broken-authentication-session-management/)
    [Hacking Websites – Part 4: SQL Injection
    Attack](http://www.thatcoderguy.co.uk/2014/06/17/hacking-websites-part-4-sql-injection-attack/)
    [Hacking Websites – Part 5: Missing Function Level Access
    Control](http://www.thatcoderguy.co.uk/2014/07/01/hacking-websites-part-5-missing-function-level-access-control/)
    [Hacking Websites – Part 6: Unvalidated Redirects and
    Forwards](http://www.thatcoderguy.co.uk/2014/09/16/hacking-websites-part-6-unvalidated-redirects-and-forwards/)

# Road Map and Getting Involved

As of 7th July, there are 5 vulnerabilities implemented in the Classic
ASP version of OWASP Faux Bank.

The immediate road map for the classic ASP Version is as follows:

  - A9 - Using Components with Known Vulnerabilities
    A6 – Sensitive Data Exposure
    A5 – Security Misconfiguration
    A4 – Insecure Direct Object References

The PHP version is looking to be completed in 2015, and the .Net version
will then follow.

If you'd like to get involved, why not [contact
me](mailto:davie.elliott@owasp.org), or if you'd like to write the PHP
or .Net versions (which haven't been started yet), why not just create a
fork on GitHub and create your own version and upload it.

# Project About

__NOTOC__ <headertabs />

[Category:OWASP Project](Category:OWASP_Project "wikilink")
[Category:OWASP_Builders](Category:OWASP_Builders "wikilink")
[Category:OWASP_Defenders](Category:OWASP_Defenders "wikilink")
[Category:OWASP_Document](Category:OWASP_Document "wikilink")