[<https://www.owasp.org/images/4/4b/Owasp_ausconf_banner.jpg>](http://www.owasp.org/index.php/OWASP_Australia_AppSec_2008_Conference)

Welcome to the OWASP Australia Application Security Conference for 2008.
Following on from the great success of OWASP Conferences in 2006 and
2007 in the United States and Europe, the first ever Asia Pacific &
Australia Security conference will take place in February 2008. The
conference will offer an opportunity for security professionals,
developers, and managers to hear from industry recognised speakers on
the latest critical security risks associated with application security.
The conference includes a number of high quality presentations from
industry speakers and business professionals with also the opportunity
to network with relevant application security vendors and professionals.

\*\*NEW\*\* The Live Photo Blog is online, you can now see some photos
from the conference.

We will attempt to upload photos throughout the conference.

[PhotoBlog](http://www.owasp.org/index.php/OWASP_Australia_AppSec_2008_Conference/PhotoBlog)

## Conference Details

**Conference Training Day** (Wednesday 27th February 2008).

**Main Conference Presentations** (Thursday 28th and Friday 29th
February 2008).

The 2008 Conference will be held at the Gold Coast Convention Center in
Queensland Australia.

The Conference includes a Vendor Exhibition, Welcome Cocktail Party and
Gala Dinner.

## Latest News

The Conference Training & Presentation Agenda's are all online now.
Registrations are filling fast, so please get in before registrations
close. Also OWASP has decided (based on popular requests) to extend the
"Early Bird" registrations until the end of January. This means you can
save up to $50 off the already discounted conference registrations.

The Conference committee have arranged all the facilities which will be
excellent, and the food selection has taken place, (Everyone will enjoy
the excellent food offerings as well as the Gala Dinner prepared for the
Thursday Night which is all inclusive of the conference fees.)

If you have any questions please let us know, we look forward to seeing
everyone at the conference.

## Cocktail Party and Asia Pacific Launch of The New face of Cybercime Wednesday Night

The guys at Fortify have once again come to the party and are sponsoring
a Fortify OWASP Cocktail Party on the Wednesday Night (27th February
2008) from 6:00PM until 7:30PM. This will be held on level 1 of the Gold
Coast Convention Centre (Foyer E), and all conference attendees are
welcome to join us. Free Drinks, Cocktails and light food will be
provided. The showing (video launch) in Australia for the New Face of
Cybercrime video will also be played during the cocktail party. Please
come and join us for a great initial night of drinks, good people and
networking opportunities.

## [OWASP Conference Training: Wednesday 27th February 2008](OWASP_Australia_AppSec_2008_Conference/TrainingAgenda "wikilink")

Training Day: The Training to be offered at the Conference is a one day
course on Application Security Testing, and Coding Security Techniques.
This course provides an understanding of how to Identify Vulnerabilities
in Web Applications, how to exploit them, and also techniques and
methods to address the problems within the Application code. (Examples
will be provided in .NET and Java).

This course will be delivered by Mr. Jonathan Carter and Peter Freiberg,
both are Application Security Experts within Australia and have previous
development backgrounds in Microsoft .NET and Java Programming
Languages.

## [Agenda and Presentations: Thursday 28th and Friday 29th February 2008](OWASP_Australia_AppSec_2008_Conference/Agenda "wikilink")

[Agenda is now
ONLINE](http://www.owasp.org/index.php/OWASP_Australia_AppSec_2008_Conference/Agenda).
Mark Curphey (Founder of OWASP, and currently with Microsoft is
speaking) along with a number of other industry experts from Australia,
New Zealand, Asia Pacific, and the US and UK. With planing, we have
tried to cover nearly every topic relating to Application Security so
attendees should gather a wealth of Technical and Business related
content for Application Security.

## Technology Expo

Leading vendors in the application security space will be at the
conference giving technology demonstrations and providing access to
their technical staff so they can answer in-depth questions and
demonstrate the capabilities of their products or managed services.

The technology expo will be open during the conference in the meeting
area. All attendees will be available to meet and discuss with any of
the vendors during morning, lunch, and afternoon breaks.

More information about conference sponsorship and participating in the
technology expo is available by contacting the conference Committee.

## Conference Fees

Standard: $475, OWASP Members: $425,

*Membership Discounts Available:*

AISA Members: $25

Auscert Members: $25 (Select Group Special when registering)

Conference Fees are inclusive of all presentations and agenda (including
the Cocktail Reception and Gala Dinner)

*Conference Tutorial (One Day Training):*

$650 ($750 if attending tutorial only)

Early Registration Discount (\* Extended until 25th Jan 2008): $50

Note: To save on processing expenses, all fees paid for the AppSec 2008
Conference are non-refundable. OWASP can accomodate transfers of
registrations from one person to another, if such an adjustment becomes
necessary. (Please note that all fees are in USD) (Conference Fees are
kept to a minimum and follow the US/UK Conference Pricing)

When selecting Group Membership discounts when registering, you will be
asked upon the conference day to show your membership details to the
conference registration desk.

## [Registration](http://guest.cvent.com/i.aspx?4W,M3,91a28af2-06ca-4030-bec4-a55c5a6fe138)

Registration is now open\!\! Here is the [registration
page](http://guest.cvent.com/i.aspx?4W,M3,91a28af2-06ca-4030-bec4-a55c5a6fe138).

## Conference Accomodation & Hotel Registration

OWASP has negotiated a deal with the Sofitel Hotel near the conference
Facility. You can download the registration form from the OWASP web site
and fax the registration directly to the Hotel. This hotel is within 5
minutes walking distance from the Conference Facility. \[Registration
<http://www.owasp.org/images/0/05/OWSAP_FEB_2008.doc>\]

For other Hotels, you can try the Jupiters Casino which is also within
walking distance, or try www.wotif.com and Gold Coast (Broadbeach Hotels
for places to stay nearby the Facility).

The Sofitel Hotel is nearly full, the next closest hotel is the Bel Air
at Broadbeach. They currently still have rooms available on Wotif, or
you can contact the Hotel directly.

## OWASP Australian Security Conference 2008 Sponsors

The following organizations are sponsors for this conference. If you are
interested in sponsoring the OWASP Australia AppSec 2008 conference,
please contact the conference committee.

Current OWASP Australia Application Security 2008 Conference Sponsors
are:

[<http://www.owasp.org/images/3/33/Bsec.JPG>](http://www.b-sec.com)
[<http://www.owasp.org/images/d/d1/Fortify.JPG>](http://www.fortifysoftware.com)
[<http://www.owasp.org/images/7/7e/50px-F5_50px.jpg>](http://www.f5.com)
[<http://www.owasp.org/images/c/c8/170px-IBM_logo_svg.png>](http://www.ibm.com)

The conference is currently supported by

[<http://www.owasp.org/images/0/0f/Auscert-Header-logo.gif>](http://www.auscert.org.au)
[<http://www.owasp.org/images/c/c3/AISALogo_download01jul07.gif>](http://www.aisa.org.au)

## Conference Committee

OWASP Australian Conferences Chair: Justin Derry - b-sec Consulting -
jderry 'at' owasp.org

Currently assisted by (and with thanks)

OWASP Conferences Chair: Dave Wichers - Aspect Security - dave.wichers
'at' owasp.org