## OWASP Newsletter \#16 (02-May-2008)

Welcome to the 16th edition of the OWASP Newsletter, featuring OWASP at
the Secure360 Conference, the OWASP Internship, and the release of
OWASP's Top 10 in Portuguese.

I would like to congratulate the OWASP Spain chapter for receiving one
of the most prestigious awards of the security sector in Spain, for
their activity and dissemination of security in applications and Web
services in our country\! This award, given by the SIC magazine
(www.revistasic.com) in its nineteenth congress called "Securm√°tica"
(www.securmatica.com), involves the recognition of the effort they are
making from Spain to publicize the objectives and projects the OWASP.

As always, if you have any content to add to the next edition, please
feel free to add it directly to its WIKI page [OWASP Newsletter
17](OWASP_Newsletter_17 "wikilink").

Alison McNamee OWASP Operations Director Tel: 301-575-0197 eMail:
Alison.mcnamee@owasp.org

## Featured Item: OWASP at Secure360 Conference

The OWASP Minneapolis St Paul chapter will be at the Secure360
conference in Minneapolis May 13th-14th. We will be giving a full
session where we will talk about OWASP, demo projects, resources and
even have our own informational booth thanks to our local sponsors\!

<http://www.secure360.org>

## Featured Item: OWASP Internship

Are you a college student looking for a summer internship in the
application security industry? If so, then OWASP is the place for you\!
We are currently looking to fill two internship positions for this
summer. These are paid internships. [Click
Here](http://www.owasp.org/index.php/OWASP_Internship_2008) for more
info\!

## Featured Item: Top 10 in Portuguese

The OWASP Top 10 is now available in Portuguese\! To download the
Portuguese version, please [Click
Here](http://www.owasp.org/images/4/42/OWASP_TOP_10_2007_PT-BR.pdf)

## Latest additions to the WIKI

#### New Pages

  - [OWASP_Writing_Style](OWASP_Writing_Style "wikilink")
  - [AppSecEU08_The_Dynamic_Taint_Propagation_Finding_Vulnerabilities_Without_Attacking](AppSecEU08_The_Dynamic_Taint_Propagation_Finding_Vulnerabilities_Without_Attacking "wikilink")
  - [ASP.NET_Request_Validation](ASP.NET_Request_Validation "wikilink")
  - [OWASP_Israel_2008_Conference](OWASP_Israel_2008_Conference "wikilink")
  - [OWASP_Orizon_Project_XML](OWASP_Orizon_Project_XML "wikilink")
  - [OWASP_Spanish](OWASP_Spanish "wikilink")
  - [OWASP_Internationalization](OWASP_Internationalization "wikilink")
  - [Belgium_Previous_Events_2008](Belgium_Previous_Events_2008 "wikilink")
  - [AppSecEU08_Evaluation_Criteria_for_Web_Application_Firewalls](AppSecEU08_Evaluation_Criteria_for_Web_Application_Firewalls "wikilink")
  - [CSRFGuard_2.2_Configuration_Manual](CSRFGuard_2.2_Configuration_Manual "wikilink")
  - [AppSecEU08_The_OWASP_ORIZON_project](AppSecEU08_The_OWASP_ORIZON_project "wikilink")
  - [Education_Track:_OWASP_Capture_the_flag_application](Education_Track:_OWASP_Capture_the_flag_application "wikilink")
  - [Education_Track:_OWASP_Boot_Camp](Education_Track:_OWASP_Boot_Camp "wikilink")
  - [AppSecEU08_Threat_Modeling_for_Application_Designers_and_Architects](AppSecEU08_Threat_Modeling_for_Application_Designers_and_Architects "wikilink")
  - [.NET_Incident_Response](.NET_Incident_Response "wikilink")
  - [.Net_Project_Wishlist](.Net_Project_Wishlist "wikilink")
  - [.NET_Penetration_Testing](.NET_Penetration_Testing "wikilink")
  - [CSRFGuard_2.2_ChangeLog](CSRFGuard_2.2_ChangeLog "wikilink")
  - [CSRFGuard_2.2_Installation](CSRFGuard_2.2_Installation "wikilink")
  - [AppSecEU08_Exploiting_Online_Games](AppSecEU08_Exploiting_Online_Games "wikilink")
  - [AppSecEU08_Software_Security_State_of_the_Practice_2008](AppSecEU08_Software_Security_State_of_the_Practice_2008 "wikilink")
  - [OWASP_Internship_2008](OWASP_Internship_2008 "wikilink")
  - [AppSecEU08_Scanstud_-_Evaluating_static_analysis_tools](AppSecEU08_Scanstud_-_Evaluating_static_analysis_tools "wikilink")
  - [How_to_Start_an_OWASP_Project](How_to_Start_an_OWASP_Project "wikilink")
  - [AppSecEU08_Best_Practices_Guide_Web_Application_Firewalls](AppSecEU08_Best_Practices_Guide_Web_Application_Firewalls "wikilink")
  - [.NET_Security_for_Developers](.NET_Security_for_Developers "wikilink")
  - [.NET_Security_for_IT_Professional](.NET_Security_for_IT_Professional "wikilink")
  - [OWASP_Board_Meetings_April_Agenda](OWASP_Board_Meetings_April_Agenda "wikilink")
  - [AppSecEU08_Dirk_De_Maeyer](AppSecEU08_Dirk_De_Maeyer "wikilink")
  - [AppSecEU08_How_Data_Privacy_affects_Applications_and_Databases](AppSecEU08_How_Data_Privacy_affects_Applications_and_Databases "wikilink")
  - [AppSecEU08_The_Web_Hacking_Incidents_Database_Project](AppSecEU08_The_Web_Hacking_Incidents_Database_Project "wikilink")
  - [.NET_Security_for_Architects](.NET_Security_for_Architects "wikilink")

#### New Chapter Pages

  - [Norway](Norway "wikilink")
  - [China-Mainland](China-Mainland "wikilink")

#### Updated Pages

  - [OWASP_Summer_of_Code_2008](OWASP_Summer_of_Code_2008 "wikilink")
  - [AppSecEU08_The_OWASP_Anti-Samy_project](AppSecEU08_The_OWASP_Anti-Samy_project "wikilink")
  - [ASP.NET_Request_Validation](ASP.NET_Request_Validation "wikilink")
  - [OWASP_Israel_2007_Conference](OWASP_Israel_2007_Conference "wikilink")
  - [Project_Information:template](Project_Information:template "wikilink")
  - [OWASP_Testing_Guide_v3_Table_of_Contents](OWASP_Testing_Guide_v3_Table_of_Contents "wikilink")
  - [OWASP_Testing_Project_v3_Roadmap](OWASP_Testing_Project_v3_Roadmap "wikilink")
  - [Code_Review_Introduction](Code_Review_Introduction "wikilink")
  - [.NET_Project_ReOrg_Alpha](.NET_Project_ReOrg_Alpha "wikilink")
  - [Testing_for_Cross_site_scripting](Testing_for_Cross_site_scripting "wikilink")
  - [Front_Range_Web_Application_Security_Summit_Planning_Page](Front_Range_Web_Application_Security_Summit_Planning_Page "wikilink")
  - [CSRFGuard_2.2_Configuration_Manual](CSRFGuard_2.2_Configuration_Manual "wikilink")
  - [OWASP_Testing_Guide_v3_Startup](OWASP_Testing_Guide_v3_Startup "wikilink")
  - [OWASP_AppSec_Europe_2008_-_Belgium](OWASP_AppSec_Europe_2008_-_Belgium "wikilink")
  - [What_are_web_applications%3F](What_are_web_applications%3F "wikilink")
  - [OWASP_Summer_of_Code_2008_Applications_-_Need_Futher_Clarifications](OWASP_Summer_of_Code_2008_Applications_-_Need_Futher_Clarifications "wikilink")
  - [OWASP_Summer_of_Code_2008_Applications](OWASP_Summer_of_Code_2008_Applications "wikilink")
  - [OWASP_Backend_Security_Project](OWASP_Backend_Security_Project "wikilink")
  - [Sponsored_Projects](Sponsored_Projects "wikilink")
  - [Man-in-the-middle_attack](Man-in-the-middle_attack "wikilink")
  - [Password_length_%26_complexity](Password_length_%26_complexity "wikilink")
  - [AppSecEU08_Trends_in_Web_Hacking_Incidents:_What%27s_hot_for_2008](AppSecEU08_Trends_in_Web_Hacking_Incidents:_What%27s_hot_for_2008 "wikilink")
  - [OWASP_Summer_of_Code_2008_Applications_-_for_majority_vote](OWASP_Summer_of_Code_2008_Applications_-_for_majority_vote "wikilink")

#### Updated chapter pages:

  - [Denver](Denver "wikilink")
  - [Suncoast](Suncoast "wikilink")
  - [Israel](Israel "wikilink")
  - [Sweden](Sweden "wikilink")
  - [London](London "wikilink")
  - [Sydney](Sydney "wikilink")
  - [Austin](Austin "wikilink")
  - [Mexico_City/es](Mexico_City/es "wikilink")
  - [Boulder](Boulder "wikilink")
  - [Rochester](Rochester "wikilink")
  - [Ireland](Ireland "wikilink")
  - [Helsinki](Helsinki "wikilink")
  - [Virginia_%28Northern_Virginia%29](Virginia_%28Northern_Virginia%29 "wikilink")
  - [Montr%C3%A9al](Montr%C3%A9al "wikilink")
  - [Switzerland](Switzerland "wikilink")
  - [Italy_OWASP_Day_2](Italy_OWASP_Day_2 "wikilink")
  - [Spain](Spain "wikilink")
  - [Brazilian](Brazilian "wikilink")
  - [Sacramento](Sacramento "wikilink")
  - [Belgium](Belgium "wikilink")
  - [NYNJMetro](NYNJMetro "wikilink")
  - [Boulderchaptermeetings2007.html](Boulderchaptermeetings2007.html "wikilink")
  - [Minneapolis_St_Paul](Minneapolis_St_Paul "wikilink")

#### New Documents & Presentations from chapters

For a complete list of chapter presentations see [the online table of
presentations](OWASP_Education_Presentation "wikilink").

## OWASP references in the Media

  - [Great talks at OWASP AppSec Europe 2008 in
    Belgium](http://blog.modsecurity.org/2008/04/great-talks-at.html)
  - [SQL injection attacks summary and
    recommendations](http://infosec4all.com/2008/04/28/sql-injection-attacks-summary-and-recommendations/)
  - [Can we please stop cross site scripting
    attacks?](http://blogs.computerworld.com/can_we_please_stop_cross_site_scripting_attacks)
  - [AntiSamy 1.1.1 released today\!](http://i8jesus.com/?p=19)
  - [Can We Please Stop Cross Site Scripting
    Attacks](http://blogs.computerworld.com/can_we_please_stop_cross_site_scripting_attacks)
  - [Global OWASP
    Week 2008-Switzerland](http://www.disenchant.ch/blog/global-owasp-week-2008-switzerland/122)
  - [Rocky Mountain
    High](http://cleartext.wordpress.com/2008/04/10/rocky-mountain-high/)
  - [The new face of
    cybercrime](http://cincinnatirecruiter.wordpress.com/2008/04/11/the-new-face-of-cybercrime/)

## **[Application Security News Feed](https://www.owasp.org/index.php/Template:Application_Security_News)**