## OWASP Newsletter \#11 (18-Jan-2008)

Welcome to the 11th edition of the OWASP Newsletter, featuring the 2008
Australia Conference, the AntiSamy Project and the Secure Application
Development Course 2008.

First of all, I would like to introduce myself as OWASP’s new Operations
Director. I began working with OWASP on November 26, and will be in
charge of all administrative operations. This will include handling all
of the memberships, assisting with the planning and coordination of
OWASP conferences, managing OWASP’s bookkeeping and assisting with any
issues as they arise. I will also be in charge of writing and posting
the OWASP Newsletter. We hope to eventually get these out on a weekly
basis.

I would also like to welcome our newest OWASP Chapter located in
Minneapolis. Kuai Hinojosa is the chapter lead.

As always, if you have any content to add to the next edition, please
feel free to add it directly to its WIKI page [OWASP Newsletter
12](OWASP_Newsletter_12 "wikilink").

Alison McNamee - OWASP Operations Director - Alison.mcnamee@owasp.org

## Featured Item: 2008 Australia AppSec Conference

The 2008 Australia AppSec Conference is fast approaching. The conference
will be held on February 27th – 29th at the Gold Coast Convention Centre
in Queensland Australia, and will include a Conference Training day on
the 27th, and Conference Presentations on the 28th and 29th. Mark
Curphey, the original founder of OWASP, will be speaking, as well as a
number of other industry experts from all around the world. The
conference is also going to include a Vendor Exhibition, Welcome
Cocktail Party and Gala Dinner.

The early registration discount has been extended to January 25th, so be
sure to register before then to take advantage of the savings.

To view the agenda, go to:
<http://www.owasp.org/index.php/OWASP_Australia_AppSec_2008_Conference/Agenda>

## Featured Project: AntiSamy Project

Arshan Dabirsiaghi, a Senior Security Analyst for Aspect Security,
introduced his AntiSamy project at the OWASP San Jose AppSec Conference
in November 2007. The AntiSamy project is an API for ensuring
user-supplied HTML/CSS is in compliance within an application's rules.

You can read more about the AntiSamy project, and learn the 4 step
process involved in the integration of AntiSamy at:
<http://www.owasp.org/index.php/Category:OWASP_AntiSamy_Project>

## Featured Event: Secure Application Development Course 2008 (Belgium, March 3-7)

A week-long intensive secure application development course on 2 tracks.
It focuses on the following topics: Mainstream security technologies,
Security related requirements, Secure application architectures,
Cost-effective security features, Coding vulnerabilities and Assurance.
OWASP members receive a 10% discount off the 2,750 € rate.

Visit <http://secappdev.org/> for all the details and to register
online.

## Latest additions to the WIKI

#### New Pages

  - [Securing cookie to one IP](Securing_cookie_to_one_IP "wikilink")

#### Updated pages

Updated chapter pages:

  - [Minneapolis St Paul](Minneapolis_St_Paul "wikilink")
  - [Jordan](Jordan "wikilink")

Other pages:

  - [OWASP News 2007](OWASP_News_2007 "wikilink")
  - [Archived Application Security
    News](Archived_Application_Security_News "wikilink")
  - [Application Security News](Application_Security_News "wikilink")

#### New Documents & Presentations from chapters

For a complete list of chapter presentations see [the online table of
presentations](OWASP_Education_Presentation "wikilink").

## OWASP references in the Media

  - [Build secure Web applications with
    OWASP](http://www.linux.com/feature/123070/)

<!-- end list -->

  - [Best Practices to Secure your
    Code](http://reddevnews.com/books/article.aspx?editorialsid=173/)