# AGENDA

<http://www.owasp.org/index.php/OWASP_Board_Meetings>

Please review the progress of the Global Committee
<http://www.owasp.org/index.php/Global_Committee_Pages> and prepare your
report to status on old business and new business.

When

`   Tue Dec 1 5pm – 6pm GMT (no daylight saving)`

Where

`   1-866-534-4754 Code: 7452912855 `

MEETING LEADER: Jeff Williams
IDEA CATCHER: Kate Hartman

# OLD BUSINESS

[2009 Review of outstanding
items](http://www.owasp.org/index.php/OWASP_Board_Meetings#tab=Details_of_2009_Meetings)

Outstanding items for 2010

  - [RFQ](https://docs.google.com/a/owasp.org/Doc?docid=0ASUwHYYmOdvrZGh0ajRzMl8xY3JwcTJqY2Q&hl=en)
    Outsourcing OWASP Website/Mailing Lists etc & [Larry
    Support](http://www.owasp.org/index.php/OWASP_Board_Meeting_July_09)
      - Question: Is the scope of this RFQ just the OWASP archive
        proposed by Matt Tesauro or all of the OWASP IT infrastructure?

<!-- end list -->

  - Correction [Banner
    Ads](http://www.owasp.org/index.php/OWASP_Board_Meeting_August_09)

# NEW BUSINESS

  - Welcome New Board Members - Matt Tesauro and Eoin Keary
  - OotM Budget + request by NL & IBWAS for Kuai
  - OWASP Certification position vote

## Finance Report

\- YTD

\- 2010 Budget

[P\&L as of
Nov 2009](http://www.owasp.org/images/7/7c/P%26L_as_of_Nov_09.pdf)

`- Proposal - The Foundation should produce an annual report similar to `<http://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/foundation/2/26/WMF_20072008_Annual_report._high_resolution.pdf>`.  I suggest that we draft one (many of the materials are available) and target a Q1 release - perhaps along with the T10.`

## Committee Reports

\- Please review [Global Committee
Reports](http://www.owasp.org/index.php/Global_Committee_Pages) before
meeting

\- Board Member 3 Month Rotation of Global Committees Oversight (Draw
Straws)

## Membership Committee

\- Membership Report
[755](http://spreadsheets.google.com/pub?key=p6IFyntQTi7sxa2Xjx191BA) -
Alison Report

\- Linked'In OWASP Group Members =
[4718](http://www.linkedin.com/groups?gid=36874&trk=hb_side_g)

### OWASP Election Process

\- Proposal to adopt the process followed in the recent board election
as OWASP's standard election process, with action items for the
membership committee to resolve before the next election:

  - examine the policies around who will be allowed to vote
  - work on email address problems (including mass email service)
  - define policies surrounding campaigning
  - explore "approval voting" instead of mandatory 2 candidate vote
    plicy
  - define process for releasing the results
  - work with voting system vendor to do security testing?

### Brazil Conference Issues

Discuss the resolution of issues raised about AppSec Brazil

**Can we be more specific about the recommended actions here so the
board can approve?**

Done below. --[Mtesauro](User:Mtesauro "wikilink") 23:54, 30 November
2009 (UTC)

(1) Determine the group that should resolve the raised issues

  - A group consisting of at least 1 board member and several committee
    representatives should be created to resolve the issues
      - I suggested that Jeff Williams be considered for the Board
        representation since he has a legal background.
  - Exclude from the group any person who attended the event to remove
    any question of bias
      - Board members Dinis Cruiz and Matt Tesauro should be excluded
        from further involvement since both attended the event
      - Any committee member that attended should also be excluded -
        e.g. Pravir Chandra

(2) Produce a document of the situation and resolution determined by the
group chosen above.

  - The group should review the collected data, further discuss with the
    parties as necessary with the goal of documenting the situation and
    outcome

(3) Where needed, recommendations to avoid these issues in future should
be presented to the board and the appropriate committee(s)

[Google
doc](https://docs.google.com/Doc?docid=0ATb3QwFMHCXrZGdubjI3ZHNfMTFndmRoNm5keg&hl=en)
with background information

**Update:** The group has produced a report
[here](http://www.owasp.org/index.php/OWASP_Investigation_-_AppSec_Brazil_2009)
--[Mtesauro](User:Mtesauro "wikilink") 22:19, 22 December 2009 (UTC)

[2009 Summit](http://www.owasp.org/index.php/Summit_2009#tab=Agenda)

### AppSec DC

\- Profit Loss Report - Is there interest in Annual OWASP Federal
Conference in DC? - Videos of APPSEC DC Summit online ETA ?

### Training Conference Idea

\- Proposal to offer "OWASP" courses or training conferences in major
cities. Not certification, but evangalism through instruction
(McGovern). Allows OWASP to become the "body of knowledge" without
providing a type of certification. Cover trainer costs with a 25/75
revenue split. Model Trainer Joe teaches a one day class in Austin. $675
X 10 Students = $6750. Joe's expences = $1000. Net split = %25 to Joe -
$1437.50 %75 to foundation - $4312.50. Pricing variable as possible
added benefit to corporate sponsors? Earmark funds for SOC or Public
Relations?

\- [2010
Agenda](http://www.owasp.org/index.php/Category:OWASP_AppSec_Conference)

\- Proposal for 2011 Summit/Conference - Las Vegas

## Chapters Committee

2010 focus:

  - Identify & reactivate inactive chapters
  - Actively support chapters with mentorship- and speaker program
  - Roll out College OWASP Education kit through chapters

\- How many active chapters? How many leaders showed up at Summit from
them? **What is action here?**

\- Start "OWASP College Chapters" program. Provide a full "kit" of
materials to college student chapter leads. Goal is to get a touchpoint
in every college with a CS department around the world. Chapter goals
are to raise OWASP awareness by students and to influence the
curriculum.

## Education Committee

\- The Certification
[Update](http://www.owasp.org/index.php/OWASP_Board_Meeting_October_09)

\- [Proposed statement](Proposed_statement "wikilink") about OWASP
getting involved in certification.

2010 focus:

  - academic outreach
      - Increase \# academic members
      - Introduce OWASP material into curriculae
      - Support Appsec research grants for students
      - Organise events at universities
      - Participation in research programs (e.g. advisory boards)
  - OWASP BootCamp
  - Roll out College OWASP Education kit through chapters

## Projects Committee

\- Proposal to start SOC with 90K grant
[Update](http://www.owasp.org/index.php/OWASP_Board_Meetings_June_09)

\- [OWASP-CRM Project](http://www.owasp.org/index.php/Crm) -
Overview/Update/Roll-out for OWASP Foundation - [click
here](http://www.owasp.org/images/e/e4/CM_Capture_8.png)

\- OWASP.COM Google Domain **what is action?**

\- Proposal to start a "Provider Registry" for ASVS -
<http://code.google.com/p/owasp-project-management/wiki/Providers>.
Personally, I'm not sure that it's a great idea. Without some
attestation as to the skills of the organization, it's essentially
worthless. And I don't think that OWASP is in a good position either
philosophically or organizationally to be doing reviews of
organization's skills. To me, this is just like certification. We
shouldn't do it, but it might be ok for us to define some criteria for
organizations that do it. So I can imagine an "Application Security
Verifier Criteria" that lists certain criteria for performing
verification services (years of experience, number of apps, OWASP
member, OWASP contributor, number of confirmed vulnerabilities found,
platforms supported, ASVS levels supported, etc...)

  - GPC's State of Affairs:
      - Participation at the
        [IBWAS09](OWASP_AppSec_Iberia_2009 "wikilink")
      - [Reviewers
        Drive](http://globalprojectscommittee.wordpress.com/2009/11/27/new-drive-for-project-reviewers/),
      - On its way is the work to finish up the release template
        associated with the new project details page - after completion
        all the project details pages should be linked with each and all
        projects' pages,
      - One project - [OWASP
        JBroFuzz](:Category:OWASP_JBroFuzz "wikilink") - has already
        been assessed against the new assessment criteria 2.0.
      - [Five projects](OWASP_Projects_Dashboard "wikilink") under
        assessment,
      - Two new projects recently set up:
          - [OWASP Security Assurance Testing of Virtual
            Worlds](:Category:OWASP_Security_Assurance_Testing_of_Virtual_Worlds_Project "wikilink"),
            led by Rick Zhong,
          - [OWASP Computer Based Training Project (OWASP CBT
            Project)](:Category:OWASP_CBT_Project "wikilink"), led by
            Nishi Kumar.

## Industry Committee

\- Public Relations

\- Special Interest Groups (result of summit) [click
here](http://www.owasp.org/index.php/Global_Committee_Pages)

**OWASP Industry Outreach (OIO)** -EK

A few ideas in relation to the industry outreach idea:

**Objective**: For OWASP to listen to industry, government, national
enterprise state bodies and other standards organisations in relation to
"what are the real problems facing you?" & "How can OWASP help?", "How
do we mature web application security" To define a roadmap consisting of
both short term and long term goals. Short term goals must support the
longer term objectives.

Limit the activities defined to a very short list that is achieveable
and measureable within one calendar year.

1.Invite-only event + limited OWASP leaders (cant overwhelm event with
OWASP delegates\!)

2.Identifying a cross-section from many verticals. (Gov, FS, Energy,
Transport, Telecoms, Dev, Retail, etc) Might have a break-out session
for each of the industry verticals.: Closed session where delegates can
discuss openly issues facing them and challenges. Limited to 2 hours.
Each group session nominates a delegate to present findings to the whole
group (all delegates)

3.NDA/Code of conduct doc to be signed by ALL delegates. Organizations
wont send delegates or speak openly unless there is some from of
information control.

4.Wider meeting & presentations (from majority industry delegates and
some OWASP) to all attendees on what issues they have, in order of
priority. - we listen to industry

5.OWASP Board Panel discussion

6.OWASP industry panel meeting discussion

7\. Agree and define a road map for OWASP & Industry supporting each
other.

8 This may/should increase corporate sponsorship if delegates get
something out of it and make OWASP more relevant to industry.

**"Currently Security conferences are presented by security people
security people. The Industry outreach programme is an attempt to change
this model."**

## OTHER

  - **New committee**: [OWASP Connections
    Committee](OWASP_Connections_Committee "wikilink")
  - Linked'In Group [4715 Members of Linked'In
    Group](http://www.linkedin.com/groups?gid=36874&trk=hb_side_g) 37
    Moderators co-sysops for discussion groups
  - Public Relations [OWASP
    Newsletter](http://www.owasp.org/index.php/Category:OWASP_Newsletter)
  - Public Relations budget 2010 (what committee)

# CLOSING

\-Date/Time of Next Meeting

__NOTOC__