## OWASP AppSec Europe 2005 - April 9/10

OWASP held its second Application Security Conference at the home of
[one of the best](http://www.isg.rhul.ac.uk/) InfoSec Master's programs
in Europe, [Royal Holloway, University of
London](http://www.rhul.ac.uk/Index.html). The presentations for the
conference are available on the
[agenda](AppSec_Europe_2005/Agenda "wikilink") page. This highly
international conference was a great success and a tribute to the heavy
involvement in OWASP from all over the globe. Representatives from
fifteen countries attended the conference from the following countries:

:\* Belgium

:\* Canada

:\* Czech Republic

:\* Finland

:\* France

:\* Germany

:\* India

:\* Ireland

:\* Israel

:\* Malta

:\* Netherlands

:\* Norway

:\* South Africa

:\* Switzerland

:\* Turkey

:\* United Kingdom

:\* United States

**Conference Hall Location:** The conference was held in the Main
Lecture Theatre (also referred to as the MLT) which is situated within
the main Founders Building.

The speakers list included:

:\* Denis Verdon (Head of CISG, Fidelity National Financial)

:\* Dr. Charles Pfleeger (Author of Security in Computing, 3rd. Ed.)

:\* Jeff Williams (OWASP Chair and CEO, Aspect Security)

:\* and many more...

The following content is as it was prior to the conference registration:

OWASP's AppSec conferences are dedicated to real-world application
security issues and solutions. The full
[agenda](AppSec_Europe_2005/Agenda "wikilink") for the conference is
available. You'll learn about the topics from the experts like:

:\* OWASP Status, Direction, and new Projects

:\* Web Application Testing Tools and Techniques

:\* A Review of Available Testing Tools

:\* Web Services Security

:\* .NET Security

:\* Web Application Intrusion Detection

:\* Advanced Attack and Defense Techniques

:\* How to Contract for Secure Software

:\* Lessons Learned in the Trenches

By participating in this conference you'll have a direct opportunity to
help shape and influence the direction of OWASP in 2005.

## Registration Details

As a not-for-profit we have been able to keep the cost to £150 (or $280
USD) per seat which is significantly less than what most conferences
cost.

You can register for the conference using PayPal (preferred). We also
have a direct credit card payment link. Alternatively, you can register
by sending a check in USD made payable to the OWASP Foundation:

`   OWASP AppSec Europe 2005`
`   The OWASP Foundation`
`   9175 Guilford Road, Suite 300`
`   Columbia, MD 21046-2565`

PLEASE NOTE THAT ALL TICKETS ARE NON-REFUNDABLE TO REDUCE ADMINISTRATION
COSTS

## Agenda - OWASP AppSec Europe 2005

The full conference [agenda](AppSec_Europe_2005/Agenda "wikilink") is
available on a seperate page.

## Accommodations

In preparation for this conference, OWASP has put together the following
information to help make your stay as pain free as possible. [Visit the
accommodations page for more
information](AppSec_Europe_2005/Accommodations "wikilink").

We have added an optional social event for Saturday night. Please refer
to [dinner at the Wheatsheaf](AppSec_Europe_2005/Dinning "wikilink") for
more details.

This event requires a seperate payment if you wish to attend that event.

If you have any questions about the conference please contact, Dave
Wichers, the OWASP Conferences Chair, at conferences 'at' owasp.org

[Category:OWASP AppSec
Conference](Category:OWASP_AppSec_Conference "wikilink")