## Multidisciplinary Bank Attacks

Online Web banking applications have evolved considerably in the last
decade; however the financial losses by their customers due to account
compromise appear to be increasing. While the banks have invested in
their application security, organized criminal teams appear to have been
investing more - and are coming up with new vectors that emphasize
attacks that take place on the customer’s host.

Attacking a bank and its customers is a multidisciplinary activity
engaged by well organized and well funded international criminal teams.
Advances in authentication processes – whether they be multi-factor,
temporal-based combinations of one-time pads, or other backend
validation processes – have proved ineffective since the attackers have
focused upon the financial transaction itself. The combination of
drive-by-download infection vectors, custom “Swiss-army knife” malware,
banking application logic flaws and end-user complexity are all now
leveraged to conduct a successful attack.

Security professionals need to provide a multidisciplinary understanding
of the threat to their clients. The use of malware and social
engineering cannot be divorced from Web application vulnerabilities any
longer.

This session examines how malware is successfully leveraged within
organized online banking attacks to bypass even the most sophisticated
application logic. I will explain how current state-of-the-art
man-in-the-browser technologies have overcome advanced authentication
techniques and transaction validation processes. We will discuss how
banking application complexity and ill thought-out logic changes can
(and are) leveraged by criminals to socially engineer the customer in to
falling for their criminal deception. And, finally, I will explain how
even out-of-band multi-factor authentication systems such as SMS-based
tokens are likely to be bypassed in the future.

What does Web application security look like if you cannot trust
anything that goes to, or comes from, your customers host?

## About the Speaker

Gunter Ollmann serves as Director of Security Strategy for IBM Internet
Security Systems. With two decades of service within the information
technology field, Ollmann is responsible for IBM ISS’ overall strategy
for handling next generation security threats. As the former director of
X-Force, Ollmann was responsible for ISS’ security research and
development efforts, including all security content for ISS' products
and services, zero-day vulnerability analysis, observation and analysis
of global security trends, and vulnerability discovery. Ollmann was
previously the former head of X-Force security assessment services for
EMEA. In his role Gunter managed a distributed team of highly skilled
consultants in multiple locations throughout Europe, pioneered
specialist methodologies and techniques for the successful assessment of
custom software solutions and increased the growth and application of
the ISS global center of excellence in security assessment and
penetration testing.

Prior to joining Internet Security Systems, Ollmann was the professional
services director of Next Generation Security Software (NGS), a
vulnerability research and attack-based consulting firm. He was
responsible for the development of business relationships, including
building NGS’ international clientele, and helping define the direction
of research activities and development of the company’s
vulnerability-based knowledge services. Ollmann grew NGS consulting
service while dispensing cutting-edge security advice to product vendors
to aid them in the development of commercial technology.

Ollmann has been a contributor to multiple leading international IT and
security focused magazines and journals, including a dedicated monthly
“Consultants Corner” column in SC Magazine. He has authored, developed
and delivered a number of highly technical courses on Web Application
Security. He has provided technical advice to various government
agencies and is an invited to speaker at many international security
conferences.