*Sent to owasp-all mailing list on 22th Jan 2007*

## **OWASP Newsletter \#3 â€“ January 16th 2006 to January 22th 2007**

Welcome to OWASP Newsletter \#3. I would like to start by asking you all
to be a little bit more active on \[:Category:OWASP Project|OWASP
projects\] (note that the webpages the www.owasp.org website are WIKI
pages which you can edit directly (all you need is an account which you
can create in 1 minute)).

We need more feedback on our tools, more comments on our documents and
more development in our projects (if you want to collaborate but are not
sure how, drop me an email and I will channel your energies to a
relevant active project).

The [OWASP student projects](OWASP_student_projects "wikilink") page was
updated with more project ideas and I added a new section to this
newsletter called 'OWASP projects that need your help' in order to give
you a heads up on projects that need help (if you are a project leader,
please feel free to add your requests to the next version of the
newsletter). Remember that OWASP is a Open Community that is made by its
members (and the more you contribute the more you and your company will
benefit).

I would like to give a big welcome to our new [chapter from my home
country Portugal](Portuguese "wikilink"), say that the latest Beta
version of [OWASP Live CD](:Category:OWASP_Live_CD_Project "wikilink")
is now released and ready for your tests, and that projects like the
[OWASP Java Project](OWASP_Java_Project "wikilink") (featured below) are
producing amazing material but need more collaboration (and let's not
even talk about the [OWASP .NET Project](OWASP_.NET_Project "wikilink")
which I am supposed to managing and is currently going nowhere (with
some noble exceptions (Mike and Boris thx)).

We also updated the [How OWASP Works](How_OWASP_Works "wikilink") page
to reflect the current structure of the Owasp Board and to show what we
are thinking of doing in the future.

If all goes as planned, next week we will be releasing the 'Release
Candidate 1' version of the OWASP Top 10 2007 document which we want you
all to take a good look at (the plan is to have a wide peer review and
only release the final version when it is ready)

As normal you can find below the links to the latest WIKI changes (with
a new section for 'Interesting Discussion Threads' on our mailing lists)

And don't forget, if you want something to appear in the next version,
please add it to [OWASP Newsletter 4](OWASP_Newsletter_4 "wikilink")

Dinis Cruz

Chief OWASP Evangelist

London, UK

## OWASP projects that need your help

  - [Java Project](:Category:OWASP_Java_Project "wikilink"): Convert
    Mark Petrovic's article [Discovering a Java Application's Security
    Requirements](http://www.onjava.com/pub/a/onjava/2007/01/03/discovering-java-security-requirements.html)
    into the WIKI (contact Stephen de Vries if you are interested)
  - [.NET Project](:Category:OWASP_.NET_Project "wikilink"): Add PDP
    GnuCitizen [AttackAPI](http://www.gnucitizen.org/projects/attackapi)
    to [OWASP Site Generator](OWASP_Site_Generator "wikilink") and
    convert the php files into ASP.NET
  - [OWASP Testing Project
    v2.0](OWASP_Testing_Project_v2.0_-_Review_Guidelines "wikilink") -
    Now that the The OWASP Testing Guide v2.0 has reached the 'Release
    Candidate 1 milestone, the time has come to make sure that
    everything is 100% and that there is nothing major missing (review
    process ends on the 10th of Feb).
  - [OWASP WebScarab NG Project](OWASP_WebScarab_NG_Project "wikilink")
    - New version is already very usable and we need your feedback
  - Online Questionaires: I (Dinis) want to do a OWASP wide survey, what
    solution should I use to create, deploy and manage it?
  - WordPress guru needed: Our blogs (http://blogs.owasp.org/) still
    looks miserable. We need somebody to help Mide de Libero to sort it
    out (and while you're there get a feed to put on owasp.org and the
    next version of the OWASP newsletter)

## Featured Project: OWASP Java Project

The [OWASP Java Project](:Category:OWASP_Java_Project "wikilink")'s goal
is to enable Java and J2EE developers to build secure applications
efficiently. See the OWASP Java Project Roadmap for more information on
our plans.

Some links from [OWASP Java Table of
Contents](OWASP_Java_Table_of_Contents "wikilink"):

  - [How to perform HTML entity encoding in
    Java](How_to_perform_HTML_entity_encoding_in_Java "wikilink") to
    prevent Cross Site Scripting attacks
  - [JAAS Tomcat Login Module](JAAS_Tomcat_Login_Module "wikilink") - an
    example of how to implement a time delayed JAAS login module in
    Tomcat
  - [Securing Apache Tomcat](Securing_tomcat "wikilink") - a guide for
    deployers on how to secure Apache Tomcat
  - [Hashing in Java](Hashing_Java "wikilink") - how to securely
    implement cryptographic hashing in Java
  - [Java Security Resources](Java_Security_Resources "wikilink")
  - Just a couple more: [How to add validation logic to
    HttpServletRequest](How_to_add_validation_logic_to_HttpServletRequest "wikilink"),[Declarative
    Access Control in
    Java](Declarative_Access_Control_in_Java "wikilink"), [Protecting
    code archives with digital
    signatures](Protecting_code_archives_with_digital_signatures "wikilink"),
    [JAAS Timed Login Module](JAAS_Timed_Login_Module "wikilink")

## Featured Project: OWASP Live CD

The BETA Release of OWASP LiveCD ready for testing.

This distro is Beta Version 0.8 named "LabRat" and is part of the OWASP
Autumn of Code sponsorship. The distro is focused on providing all of
OWASP tools and documents on a bootable CD. The goal is to have a
portable distro that can be used by professional penetration
testers,security admins, Students, or anyone interested in computer
security to perform work,training, or research. All you have to do is
burn the .ISO to DVD or start under Vmware/Virtual PC and you will have
a full Linux desktop environment loaded with OWASP tools and documents.

The distro can be downloaded from the [PacketFocus
website](http://packetfocus.com/hackos/AOC_Labrat-ALPHA-0008.iso)
(800mb).

## Latest additions to the WIKI

#### New Pages

  - [PDF Attack Filter for Apache mod
    rewrite](PDF_Attack_Filter_for_Apache_mod_rewrite "wikilink") - PDF
    Attack Filter for Apache mod rewrite, served by Apache with
    mod_rewrite installed.
  - [Struts XSLT Viewer](Struts_XSLT_Viewer "wikilink")
  - [Reviewing code for XSS
    issues](Reviewing_code_for_XSS_issues "wikilink")
  - [OWASP WebScarab NG Project Technical
    Info](OWASP_WebScarab_NG_Project_Technical_Info "wikilink"), if you
    want to know what is happening under the hood of the new version of
    [OWASP WebScarab NG Project](OWASP_WebScarab_NG_Project "wikilink")
  - with some content [Portuguese](Portuguese "wikilink") (new chapter),
    [All clients can be reverse engineered, monitored, and
    modified](All_clients_can_be_reverse_engineered,_monitored,_and_modified "wikilink"),
    [Native Methods](Native_Methods "wikilink"), [Long long
    ago...](Long_long_ago... "wikilink"), [Java applet code
    review](Java_applet_code_review "wikilink")

#### Updated pages

  - [OWASP student projects](OWASP_student_projects "wikilink") -
    Updated with new ideas for projects
  - [How OWASP Works](How_OWASP_Works "wikilink") - Updated information
    on OWASP's board current structure and future plans
  - [Phoenix/Tools](Phoenix/Tools "wikilink")
  - [San_Francisco](San_Francisco "wikilink")
  - With Minor updates: [Bytecode
    obfuscation](Bytecode_obfuscation "wikilink"), [Chapters
    Assigned](Chapters_Assigned "wikilink"), [OWASP Top Ten
    Project](:Category:OWASP_Top_Ten_Project "wikilink")\]

#### Latest Blog entries

  - on [Orizon post](http://blogs.owasp.org/orizon/)
      - \[<http://blogs.owasp.org/orizon/2007/01/22/parsing-freedom/>|
        Parsing freedom\]

#### Interesting Discussion Threads

  - in
    [Owasp-testing](http://lists.owasp.org/mailman/listinfo/owasp-testing)
      - [Review project and
        Code-Scanning-Tool(s)](http://lists.owasp.org/pipermail/owasp-testing/2007-January/001324.html%7CCode)
      - [manual](http://lists.owasp.org/pipermail/owasp-testing/2007-January/001349.html%7COSSTMM)
        and
        \[<http://lists.owasp.org/pipermail/owasp-testing/2007-January/001384.html>|
        OSSTMM manual, followup by Pete about OSS\]

#### OWASP Community

  - Feb 15 (18:00h) - [Seattle chapter meeting](Seattle "wikilink")
  - Feb 13 (18:00h) - [Ireland chapter meeting](Ireland "wikilink")
  - Feb 6 (18:00h) - [Melbourne chapter meeting](Melbourne "wikilink")
  - Jan 31 (15:00h) - [Mumbai chapter meeting](Mumbai "wikilink")
  - Jan 30 (11:30h) - [Austin chapter meeting](Austin "wikilink")
  - Jan 25 (18:00h) - [San Francisco chapter
    meeting](San_Francisco "wikilink")
  - Jan 25 (14:30h) - [Italy@ISACA
    Rome](Italy#October_25th.2C_2007_-_Isaca_Rome "wikilink")
  - Jan 24 (17:30h) - [6th OWASP Israel chapter
    meeting](Israel#6th_OWASP_IL_meeting:_Wednesday.2C_January_24th_2007 "wikilink")
  - Jan 23 (18:00h) - [Belgium chapter meeting](Belgium "wikilink")

#### Application Security News

  - [Web Application Security Professionals Survey
    (Jan. 2007)](http://jeremiahgrossman.blogspot.com/2007/01/web-application-security-professionals.html)
    - Jeremiah Grossman just released his survey with lots of very
    interesting data. Make sure you check out section '11) Top 3 web
    application security resources' which is a nice database of the most
    popular vulnerability assessment tools and knowledge resources (\#1
    was RSnake's Blog, and \#2 was OWASP :) )

<!-- end list -->

  - [Don't take security advice from the devil you
    know\!](http://www.securityfocus.com/news/11436?ref=rss) - He lies.
    Especially about security flaws. This article notes an increase in
    vulnerabilities found in open source packages and concludes that...
    "For the personal sites and the mom-and-pop stores that rely on the
    software, it certainly affects them," Martin said. "But larger
    companies likely aren't affected." Right.

<!-- end list -->

  - [Hackers attack MoneyGram International server, breach personal info
    of 80,000
    customers](http://www.scmagazine.com/asia/news/article/626120/hackers-attack-moneygram-international-server-breach-personal-info-80000-customers/)'''
    - A MoneyGram International server has been breached, allowing
    cybercrooks access to the personal information of nearly 80,000
    people. Hackers accessed the server through the web sometime last
    month, the money-transfer company said in a statement released on
    Friday.

<!-- end list -->

  - Also worth a read: [A Rude
    Awakening](http://sylvanvonstuppe.blogspot.com/2007/01/rude-awakening.html)
    , [Making Security
    Rewarding](http://sylvanvonstuppe.blogspot.com/2007/01/rude-awakening.html)
    [Discovering a Java Application's Security
    Requirements](http://www.onjava.com/lpt/a/6844), [Security Startups
    Make
    Debut](http://www.darkreading.com/document.asp?doc_id=115110&WT.svl=news1_1),
    [Source Code Specialist Fortify to Buy Secure
    Software](http://www.eweek.com/article2/0,1895,2085461,00.asp) ,
    [Ajax Sniffer - Prrof of
    concept](http://myappsecurity.blogspot.com/2007/01/ajax-sniffer-prrof-of-concept.html),
    [Decoding the Google
    Blacklist](http://portal.spidynamics.com/blogs/msutton/), [Visual
    WebGui Announces The Dot.Net Answer To Google's
    GWT](http://newsroom.eworldwire.com/view_release.php?id=16273)

## OWASP references in the Media

  - [Lock it down: Use the OWASP Top Ten to secure your Web applications
    --
    Part 1](http://builder.com.com/5100-6374_14-6151493.html?part=rss&subj=bldr),
    Builder.com, Jan 19, 2007

__NOEDITSECTION__