<table>
<thead>
<tr class="header">
<th><p>width="700" align="center"</p></th>
<th><p><br />
</p></th>
<th><p>width="500" align="center"</p></th>
<th><p><br />
</p></th>
</tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>align="right"</p></td>
<td><figure>
<img src="OWASP_Inactive_Banner.jpg" title="OWASP_Inactive_Banner.jpg" alt="OWASP_Inactive_Banner.jpg" width="800" /><figcaption>OWASP_Inactive_Banner.jpg</figcaption>
</figure></td>
<td><p>align="right"</p></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

# Main

Metadata is a data that gives information about other data. The metadata
of any data can give information about its characteristics, quality,
creator information, versions, architecture, geographical location and
more characteristics.

Do we really need to care about metadata?. This is the question that so
many people ask. In order to try answer this question in relation to web
metadata this project does exist.

**Unmaskme**: project exposing all kind of web metadata as possible
referencing the technology behind that metadata. The goal of this
project is to raise web security awareness among web owners, webmasters,
web designers or even people without security knowledge through the
interpretation of all [Web-metadata](Web-metadata "wikilink") extracted
from any website.

**Think in this project as a central information resource which anyone
-not only penetration testers- could use with their own tools to perform
a
[fingerprinting](https://www.owasp.org/index.php/Testing_for_Web_Application_Fingerprint_\(OWASP-IG-004\))
with added capabilities and intelligence.**

-----

**Description** Compromised websites are often used by attackers to
deliver badware or to host phising pages designed to steal private
information from their victims. Unfortunately, most of the targeted
websites are managed by users with little or no security background.
Unmaskme will help the webmasters to highlight the importance of keep
update, protect or do some hardening in their websites in order to avoid
they become victims of badware.

Usually a no security aware webmaster will left a newly deployed website
by default and normally will pass months or even years without any
update on the website. As result cibercriminals will take advantage of
this behaviour and the website will be part of the compromised website
statistics. Web hosting providers -who play a key role in this scene-
are not doing any effort to help with this problem.

Unmaskme project is only a open source project to collect the metadata.
Anyone is free to use this data under the corresponding license. Please
find the main section of this project in:
<https://www.owasp.org/index.php/Web-metadata> and feel free to
collaborate with more metadata information.

A proof of concept tool to use this data collected is available in:
<http://desenmascara.me>

# Project About

[Category:OWASP Project](Category:OWASP_Project "wikilink")