## Main Links

  - [OWASP Autumn Of Code 2006](OWASP_Autumn_Of_Code_2006 "wikilink") -
    the page (this one) that started it all
  - [OWASP Autumn Of Code 2006 : Press
    Release](OWASP_Autumn_Of_Code_2006_:_Press_Release "wikilink") - The
    press release
  - [OWASP Autumn of Code 2006 -
    Applications](OWASP_Autumn_of_Code_2006_-_Applications "wikilink") -
    The applications that we received
  - [OWASP Autumn of Code 2006 -
    Selection](OWASP_Autumn_of_Code_2006_-_Selection "wikilink") - The
    projects that were selected, the selection criteria and links to
    each project page
  - [OWASP Autumn Of Code 2006 : Selected Projects Press
    Release](OWASP_Autumn_Of_Code_2006_:_Selected_Projects_Press_Release "wikilink")
    - The selection press release
  - [OWASP Autumn of Code 2006 - Project
    Completion](OWASP_Autumn_of_Code_2006_-_Project_Completion "wikilink")
    - details about the project's achivements

## Updates

  - 03 Mar 2007 - AoC is officially ended, see [OWASP Autumn of Code
    2006 - Project
    Completion](OWASP_Autumn_of_Code_2006_-_Project_Completion "wikilink")
    for more details
  - 10 Feb 2007 - All AoC projects are completed
  - 01 Jan 2007 - AoC ends with 70% of the projects with 100% completion
    status
  - 27 Sep 2006 - Projects to sponsor have been selected. Here ([OWASP
    Autumn of Code 2006 -
    Applications](OWASP_Autumn_of_Code_2006_-_Applications "wikilink"))
    are the submissions received and here ([OWASP Autumn of Code 2006 -
    Selection](OWASP_Autumn_of_Code_2006_-_Selection "wikilink")) is the
    selection criteria and the results
  - 18 Sep 2006 - Submission period is now closed. Once the applications
    are reviewed we will contact all relevant parties to finalize the
    deliverables. The final decision will be announced on the 25th of
    September. Thanks to everybody who applied for the OWASP Autumn of
    Code 2006.

## Overview

![OWASP_AOC_Logo.jpg](OWASP_AOC_Logo.jpg "OWASP_AOC_Logo.jpg")

The OWASP Autumn of Code (OAC) is an initiative aimed at financially
sponsoring contributions to OWASP Projects.

Due to its 'best effort' nature, several OWASP projects take too long to
reach a level of completeness and professionalism required for its wide
use and deployment. This is very frustrating since usually the hard
problems are solved and what is needed is a focus on the 'last-mile'.

OAC (OWASP Autumn of Code) is aimed at solving this problem. The
sponsored projects will be focused on completing existent OWASP Projects
and releasing them to the world.

To support this first phase we will use funds generated by past
conferences and membership fees (hence the commitment to sponsor 8
projects). We will also ask OWASP members if they want to sponsor
specific projects, and if all goes well the 'OWASP Spring of Code' will
follow :)

The OWASP Autumn of Code 2006 was lauched on the 31st August 2006 (see
[OWASP Autumn Of Code 2006 : Press
Release](OWASP_Autumn_Of_Code_2006_:_Press_Release "wikilink")) and is
not connected to the Google Summer of Code.

For more details please contact Dinis Cruz (dinis.cruz@owasp.net)
directly.

## Project Overview

  - 8 projects to be sponsored: 4 at $3,500 USD and 4 at $5,000 USD
    (plus an optional $500 for the project leader)
  - Projects will be managed by the OWASP Project leader and by Andrew
    van der Stock, Jeff Williams or Dinis Cruz.
  - Payments will be made via PayPal in 2 stages: 50% halfway and 50% on
    completion.
  - If the contributor is not the project leader of the project being
    sponsored, and the project leader is actively participating in that
    project, then the project leader can receive (if he/she wants to) an
    additional $500 USD

## Who can Apply

There are no geographical, age or any other for of restrictions of who
can apply for an "OWASP Autumn of Code 2006" sponsorship.

The only requirement is that the candidate shows the potential to
accomplish the project's objectives and the commitment to dedicate the
time required to complete it in the allocated time frame (projects must
be completed by 31st December 2006).

This means that current active Owasp Project contributors (including
Project leaders) can apply (for obvious reasons, the only ones that
can't apply are Dinis, Jeff and Andrew)

## How To Participate

Pick a project from the list below, and send to Dinis Cruz
(dinis.cruz@owasp.net) the following details:

  - Your contact details
  - Which project you want to be involved in
  - Why you should be sponsored for the project
  - What are the objectives and deliverables

**Project ideas:**

  - Help to Complete V2.0 of WebScarab and package it as product
  - Write more lessons for WebGoat, integrate it with SiteGenerator and
    release it as a product
  - Help to complete the 'Pantera Web Assessment Studio Project' and
    release it as a product
  - Complete the Owasp Top 10 2007
  - Complete the Owasp Testing Guide
  - Complete the 'Owasp membership pack'
  - Complete the 'Owasp Live CD'
  - OWASP Honeycomb Project: Normalize the CLASP and VulnCat data and
    help to release the Honeycomb user's guide
  - Complete all OWASP .Net web tools (ANSA, SAM'SHE, Asp.Net reflector,
    etc..) and release them as a product
  - Complete the project OWASP Site Generator and release it as a
    product
  - Complete the project OWASP Report Generator (ORG) and release it as
    a product
  - Organize the 'OWASP branding project' and make a 1st pass at the
    current abuses of the OWASP brand
  - Create Training materials for OWASP projects (from tools to guides)
  - WebMaster the Owasp.org website for 3 months and implement all
    missing functionality
  - Complete Dinis Cruz' research on .Net partial trust and create a
    Proof of Concept application showing how .Net's Partial Trust
    Sandbox can be used to mitigate against most Web Application Attacks
    (extra bonus points if a Java demo is also delivered :)
  - for more ideas see the current project list at [OWASP
    Project](http://www.owasp.org/index.php/Category:OWASP_Project)

## Schedule

  - 31st August â€“ 'OWASP Autumn of Code' initiative is officially
    launched
  - 18th September - Deadline for project proposals
  - 25th September - Publish of selected projects
  - 1st October - Project starts
  - 15th October - Update of Project status on OWASP Conference in
    Seattle
  - 15th November - Participants to report on project status (and
    receive payment of inital 50%)
  - 31st December - Project Completion, participants to deliver final
    project report (and receive payment of final 50%)

## How To Sponsor

If your (i.e. your company) has a particular requirement which a current
OWASP project has the potential to fulfill, and you realize that it will
be cheaper for you to sponsor that project with a couple of developers,
please contact Dinis Cruz with your requirements, ideas, time-scales and
budget.

## The Rules bit

  - You will need to authorize OWASP to publicize your participation in
    the program and the results of the program for the purposes of
    executing on program logistics, including but not limited to
    announcements of accepted proposals, the text of the accepted
    proposal and the resulting code from work on the project. Additional
    details solicited by OWASP as part of the application process,
    including URLs for personal blogs, will be shared with the public
    with the accepted applicant's permission.
  - All project's deliverables will be publicly hosted by OWASP.
  - All code / materials created by the participants must be released
    under an Open Source Initiative approved license. The participant
    may mirror development on her/his personal infrastructure at her/his
    option.
  - OWASP reserves the right, at its sole discretion, to revoke any and
    all privileges associated with participating in this program, and to
    take any other action it deems appropriate, for no reason or any
    reason whatsoever. OWASP reserves the right to cancel, terminate or
    modify the program if it is not capable of completion as planned for
    any reason.
  - Participants and OWASP is free to use the results, including code,
    of the OWASP Autumn of Code Program in any way they choose provided
    it is not in conflict with the license under which the code was
    developed.
  - Basically, if you don't deliver you will NOT be paid

## The important bit

  - yes there will be a t-shirt available for all participants

## latest updates:

  - \[31 Aug 2006\] added page [OWASP Autumn Of Code 2006 -
    Notes](OWASP_Autumn_Of_Code_2006_-_Notes "wikilink") (if you want to
    help, this page contains the current to-do list)
  - \[31 Aug 2006\]
    [OWASP_Autumn_Of_Code_2006_:_Press_Release](OWASP_Autumn_Of_Code_2006_:_Press_Release "wikilink")
    is published

__NOTOC__

[Category:OWASP Season of
Code](Category:OWASP_Season_of_Code "wikilink")