This OWASP Europe conference was held in Milan, Italy May 15th-17th
2007. It was a great success and all the presentations are now online on
the [agenda
page](6th_OWASP_AppSec_Conference_-_Italy_2007/Agenda "wikilink").

## Conference Location

The 2007 OWASP AppSec conference in Europe was held at the Marriott in
Milan, Italy from May 15th-17th. More information about this hotel can
be found at:
<http://marriott.com/hotels/travel/milit-milan-marriott-hotel/>

Via Washington, 66

Milan, 20146 Italy

Phone: 39 02 48521

[Training Day: May
15th](6th_OWASP_AppSec_Conference_-_Italy_2007/Training "wikilink")

Main Conference: May 16th-17th

## Agenda and Presentations - May 16th-17th

The [agenda](6th_OWASP_AppSec_Conference_-_Italy_2007/Agenda "wikilink")
followed the standard OWASP conference format of two tracks, with
opening keynotes and presentations in the main auditorium, split tracks
in the middle of the day, and closing presentations back in the main
auditorium both days.

This conference included presentations from many different OWASP
contributors and leading Application Security professionals, and
included one panel each day. All the conference presentations are online
on the agenda page.

## Training Day: Tuesday - May 15th

OWASP arranged for several Application Security one-day training courses
which were offered on May 15th, the day prior to the conference. More
information about the first tutorial is available here: [The Foundations
of Web Application
Security](6th_OWASP_AppSec_Conference_-_Italy_2007/Training#T1._Foundations_of_Web_Application_Security_-_One_Day_Course_-_May_15th.2C_2007 "wikilink").
This course provides a great introduction for conference attendees into
the fundamental security issues that are highly prevalent in today's Web
Applications. The prevalence of such vulnerabilities is why OWASP was
formed to raise awareness of and help organizations and individuals
eliminate such vulnerabilities from their application code.

OWASP also arranged for a second one-day training course on Web Services
Security. Information on this course is available here: [Web Services
Security](6th_OWASP_AppSec_Conference_-_Italy_2007/Training#T2._Web_Services_and_XML_Security_-_One_Day_Course_-_May_15th.2C_2007 "wikilink").
The movement towards Web Services and Service Oriented architecture
(SOA) paradigms requires new security paradigms to deal with new risks
posed by these architectures. This session takes a pragmatic approach
towards identifying Web Services security risks and selecting and
applying countermeasures to the application, code, web servers,
databases, application, and identity servers and related software.

A third course was also available: [Advanced Asp.Net Exploits and
Countermeasures](6th_OWASP_AppSec_Conference_-_Italy_2007/Training#T3._Advanced_Asp.Net_Exploits_and_Countermeasures_-_One_Day_Course_-_May_15th.2C_2007 "wikilink")
- In this course, you will push ASP.NET to the limit and will be shown
how ASP.NET applications and environments can be exploited by skilled
attackers.

## Evening Social Event - May 16th

At every conference we have an evening social event the first night.
This allows participants to have some unstructured time to mingle with
the other attendees. They are always fun and typically attract about
half the conference attendees. This year's event was held nearby at
Ristorante Why Not? which is located at Via S. Michele del Carso, 7,
about a five minute walk from the conference, and started around 7.
After dinner, many of the participants wandered to the nearest bar/pub
and continued sometimes into the wee hours of the morning. In Europe
last year some were pretty hard core, staying out till 5 AM. I 'think'
the bars in Milan probably close earlier than that :-)

## Accommodations

OWASP arranged for a room block of 50 rooms at the Marriott in Milan
where the conference is being held. The conference rate is 170 Euros /
night (including VAT and breakfast) for up to two people per room.
Information about the hotel and reservations can be made at:
<http://marriott.com/hotels/travel/milit-milan-marriott-hotel/>. You can
also download, fill out, print, and then fax in this [registration
form](http://www.owasp.org/index.php/Image:OWASP-Marriott-Milan-RegistrationForm.doc).

NOTE: The above room block is being held through April 30th\!\! After
that date, there is no guarantee that rooms at this rate will be
available at the Marriott.

Unfortunately, we were not able to make group rate arrangements at other
hotels. However, the following is a list of nearby accommodations that
may have availability at lower prices:

Hotel Washington Milano (4 stars) www.hotelwashington-milano.com Via
Washington, 23 Ph.+39 02.45.47.30.26

Hotel Sant'Ambroeus www.hotelsantambroeus.it Viale Papiniano, 14
Ph.+39.02.48.00.89.89

Atahotel De Angeli (4 stars) www.atahotels.it/deangeli Via Trivulzio, 8
Ph.+39.02.46.70.31

## Conference Fees

The conference fees for this conference were as follows:

Standard: 450 Euros, OWASP Members: 400 Euros, Students: 250 Euros.

Conference Dinner (Evening of May 15th): 50 Euros

Conference Tutorial (All day tutorial May 15th): 650 Euros, Student Fee:
350 Euros

Note: To save on processing expenses, all fees paid for the OWASP
conference are non-refundable. OWASP can accomodate transfers of
registrations from one person to another, if such an adjustment becomes
necessary.

## [Conference Sponsors](OWASP_AppSec_Conference_Sponsors "wikilink")

The following organizations are sponsors for this conference. If you are
interested in sponsoring an OWASP conference, please contact OWASP at:
conferences 'at' owasp.org.

[<https://www.owasp.org/images/d/d1/Aspect_logo.gif>](http://www.aspectsecurity.com)
[<https://www.owasp.org/images/d/d1/Fortify.JPG>](http://www.fortifysoftware.com)
[<https://www.owasp.org/images/7/7e/50px-F5_50px.jpg>](http://www.f5.com)
[<https://www.owasp.org/images/9/9e/Emaze.jpg>](http://www.emaze.net)
[<https://www.owasp.org/images/3/33/Ounce_labs.jpg>](http://www.ouncelabs.com/)

More information about conference sponsorship is available
[here](OWASP_AppSec_Conference_Sponsors "wikilink").

__NOTOC__

[Category:OWASP AppSec
Conference](Category:OWASP_AppSec_Conference "wikilink")