## Overview

'''Development work on version 3 never got much past the concept stage
as there was significant work to do to stabilize the previous versions
and correct some problems. ''' The J2EE platform does not include any
validation features. This leaves many organizations to craft their own
validation mechanisms, often incomplete, flawed, and inefficient.

The 3.x series will mark the inclusion of web application firewall
specific features. OWASP Stinger 3.x will have some of the following
notable features:

:\* Validation of the entire HTTP request: including URI, headers,
cookies, and parameters

:\* A robust "learning" mode to make rule generation simplistic and
efficient.

:\* A full web application dedicated to editing the OWASP Stinger
configuration files

Check out the full list of new features being implemented at the [OWASP
Stinger 3.x ideas
page](http://www.owasp.org/index.php/OWASP_Stinger_3_Ideas).

## Project Lead

The OWASP Stinger Project leader is [Wesley
West](mailto:Wesley.M.West@ge.com).

## License

Stinger is offered under the
[LGPL](http://www.gnu.org/copyleft/lesser.html). For further information
on OWASP licenses, please consult the [OWASP
Licenses](OWASP_Licenses "wikilink") page.

## Downloads

:\*[Click here](http://www.owasp.org/index.php/OWASP_Stinger_3_Ideas) to
view the OWASP Stinger 3.x ideas page\!

:\* Due to the development status of Stinger 3.0, no downloads currently
exist.

## Feedback and Participation

We hope you find Stinger useful. Please contribute back to the project
by sending your comments, questions, and suggestions to the Stinger
mailing list. Thanks\!

To join the OWASP Stinger mailing list or view the archives, please
visit the [subscription
page](http://lists.owasp.org/mailman/listinfo/owasp-stinger).

## Donations

The Open Web Application Security Project is purely an open-source
community driven effort. As such, all projects and research efforts are
contributed and maintained with an individual's *spare time.* If you
have found this or any other project useful, please support OWASP with a
[donation](https://www.owasp.org/index.php/Contributions).

## Project Sponsors

The OWASP Stinger project is sponsored by
[<https://www.owasp.org/images/d/d1/Aspect_logo.gif>](http://www.aspectsecurity.com).

[Category:OWASP Stinger
Project](Category:OWASP_Stinger_Project "wikilink")