This page contains texts that are used on the the \[OWASP EU Summit 2008
- Marketing Push\]

See also
[OWASP_EU_Summit_2008--PRESS](OWASP_EU_Summit_2008--PRESS "wikilink")
for more briefing texts

__TOC__

## OWASP EU Summit 08

With the theme 'Setting the AppSec agenda for 2009', the OWASP Summit
will be a worldwide gathering of OWASP leaders and key industry players
to present and discuss the latest OWASP tools, documentation projects,
and web application security trends. Join us in Portugal in just a few
short weeks\! This venue hosts a diverse selection of training courses
along with technical and business tracks, making it THE place to learn
about web application security and the resources OWASP has available for
use today.

Setting the Web Application Security Agenda for 2009: OWASP Invites You
to Join Our Summit in Portugal
<http://www.owasp.org/index.php/OWASP_EU_Summit_2008>.

## Working Session

### Two Way internationalization working session

Hello All

Please help me identify people attending OWASP Summit at Portugal that
might be interested in participating on this working session. This is
what we want to achieve by the end of the session:

  - Define guidelines to develop translation guidelines for non Latin
    languages (Russian, Arabian, Korean, etc.),
  - Identify translation efforts on OWASP materials in progress.
  - Define if large language translations should be OWASP projects
  - Generate traction on new full translation initiatives (Materials,
    site and tools)
  - Identify best way to track materials ready to translate (to or from
    English)
  - Check if a "translator/intermediary" method would work for OWASP to
    allow non-English people create chapters, contact leaders, etc.

This is great opportunity to "spread the word on application security"
by enriching OWASP materials/ideas with non-English speakers
contribution boosting OWASP philosophy exposure exponentially :)

So if you know anyone that might be interested please ask her/him to
enroll in the following page:

<https://www.owasp.org/index.php/OWASP_Working_Session_-_Two-way_Internationalization_of_OWASP_Content>

Also you can share with them the links to [OWASP
Internationalization](OWASP_Internationalization "wikilink") and [OWASP
Spanish](OWASP_Spanish "wikilink") projects (both pages in English) to
start learning about this internationalization efforts at OWASP.

Regards, Juan Carlos

### OWASP chapter best practices in Portugal

Hi fellow EU chapter leaders,

As we have the OWASP Summit in our 'back-yard' :-), this is a good
opportunity to join us in Portugal. Moreover the working session
<http://www.owasp.org/index.php/Best_Practices_for_OWASP_Chapter_Leaders>
needs your input and help.

If you can't make it: send us your input / questions / ...

If you are already registered: come join us at the work session and add
your name to the participants list

cu all in sunny Algarve \!

regards

Seba

## Training

### Classic ASP Security using OWASP tools Training

Hello OWASP Leaders

If you are from the "old school" or are in contact with classic ASP
applications, you might be interested in this training course at
OWASP-Summit. Classic ASP 2.0 and 3.0 applications are still largely
used as this technology is more than 10 years old and was largely used.
there are thousands of sites on the wild that need guidance on the
security arena. This is where OWASP can come up and provide help for
“making the Web a better place”.

This 1 day training session will be held on Monday Nov 3rd. You will
learn how to develop, test and protect Classic ASP applications using
well known OWASP tools, these are the main topics:

  - Secure programming on ASP using [OWASP ESAPI](ESAPI "wikilink") (All
    the Top 10 domains are covered)
  - Auditing ASP code with [Code Review
    Project](:Category:OWASP_Code_Review_Project "wikilink") checklist
  - Implementing [OWASP
    Stinger](:Category:OWASP_Stinger_Project "wikilink") protection for
    Classic ASP
  - Complementary security best practices.

If you are interested or want more info about the course feel free to
reply back to me

Also feel free to distribute this email to others or send them the
course link
<http://www.owasp.org/index.php/OWASP_EU_Summit_2008_Training#Classic_ASP_Security_using_OWASP_tools>

Regards, Juan Carlos