<hr>

Help Wanted

## Part Time

Check back soon..

## Full Time

Check back soon..

<hr>

## Intern

Are you a college student looking for a internship in the application
security industry? If so, then OWASP is the place for you\! We are
currently looking to fill two internship positions for this summer.
These are paid internships.

The Open Web Application Security Project (OWASP) is a nonprofit
organization dedicated to improving the security of application
software. We are a worldwide free and open community, with chapters all
over the globe. Our mission is to make application security "visible,"
so that people and organizations can make informed decisions about
application security risks. OWASP is a community of developers,
researchers, architects, managers, and suits trying to change the
software market and stop vulnerabilities.

<b>JOB DESCRIPTION</b> As an OWASP Intern you will support open source
OWASP projects and events, help with the OWASP website and have the
opportunity to meet the leading application security experts. We’re
looking for the next generation of leaders who have the passion to make
the future of software more secure than the present. To qualify, you
should be currently enrolled in a 4 year academic institution or
Master’s program having at least completed your sophomore year with a
excellent command of written and spoken English. Top grades or a track
record of success

<b>RESPONSIBILITIES INCLUDE:</b>

· Assist with OWASP project administration

· Assist with development and distribution of OWASP publications and
outreach materials,

· Assist with OWASP grant research, grant writing and materials
coordination,

· Help with community building and education events,

· Update the OWASP community website

· Assist with general office work.

<b>TECHNICAL SKILLS NEEDED</b>

  - Knowledge of Java or .NET and at least one other common programming
    language
  - Cross-Platform ability.

<b>BENEFITS</b>

  - Permanent legal right to work in the United States. Because student
    visas (J1, F1, etc) are time-limited, we regret that we can't
    consider interns on student visas.
  - Top notch computer programming and testing skills.
  - Paid Role

<b>LOCATIONS</b> (1) position is in our office in Columbia, Maryland and
(1) position is in our office in Rockaway, New Jersey.

<B>TO APPLY</b> Please send your resume for consideration to
Kate.Hartmann(at)owasp.org