### Agenda for OWASP Board Meeting: 4/3/2008

#### Review of Action Items from last monthâ€™s meeting - 20 minutes

  - Update on Advisory Board status (Jeff)
  - Update on details of Working Groups (Dinis & Tom)
  - More clear guidelines for OWASP Projects? (All Board Members)
  - Virtual Points Proposal (Seba, Tom, & Alison)
  - What should we do with blogs/forum? (Dinis & Larry)
  - Write and post job description for OWASP Director & OWASP Intern
    (Dave & Alison)
  - Agree on and Post OotM Guideline to wiki (All Board Members &
    Alison)
  - Google SoC 2008-what is going on? (Dinis)
  - Write a proposal as to whether we should go back to corporate
    members that have joined since January of 2008, and see if they
    would like to allocate their funds to a specific project - Submit to
    board (Dinis)

#### OWASP Financials - 10 minutes

  - OWASP's 2005 & 2006 tax returns have been posted at: [OWASP
    Foundation](OWASP_Foundation "wikilink")
  - 2007 Tax Returns are getting completed soon
  - What type of audit are we going to do (full blown audit, review,
    compilation)?

#### Conferences - 20 minutes

  - Membership Packs
  - Update on Belgium & NY

### Miscellaneous - 30 minutes

  - Are we going to allow France to create a local non profit OWASP
    organization? If so, we will need to have some general principals in
    place (see details in EM from Jeff on 3/24 and from Tom on 3/25)
  - Should we renew PR Newswire?
  - Should we make a deal with a travel agency in the US, to use for
    travel expenses authorized by the board (ie: going to conference,
    OotM, etc.)?