## **Review of Action Items:**

**Update on details of working groups:** - Dinis

**OWASP ESAPI Summit** - Targeting 9/9-9/11 - OWASP will organize a
working session (not a working group) at Washington DC where the main
ESAPI contributors will be invited to participate. Jeff Williams will
structure an agenda and plan for this session.

**Identified need for clearer guidelines for OWASP projects:** The first
and second round reviews for SOC are to be completed and documented.
This will provide definition of procedures for future projects. Larry
and Paulo will work on updating wiki.

**OWASP Blog pages**: Ning.com Tom will take this down

**Local Chapter Finance model:** A draft of procedures to include roles
of chapter and roles of OWASP regarding these chapter issues. Kate and
Tom researching payment options.

**Student Memberships** - proposal to add student membership at $25 (or
enough to cover membership pack). Also suggested to add a OWASP MemberID
to the membership program.

## New Business

**Internationalization** - Larry report status

**OWASP Intern**

**Funding W3C Meeting Representative**

**6th Board Member**

**Status of OWASP Portugal Conference** - Dinis

**Richard Stallman and Licenses** - Jeff, Kate, Larry

## OWASP Community

  - Newsletter
  - Books

## **OWASP Financials:**

Audit is completed: results and takeaways

Should we switch to a different bank that can handle international wires
better?

**OWASP 200k investment plan**

## **Conferences:**

**NY conference**

**India conference**

**Proposal for OWASP EU SUMMIT 2008**

<http://www.owasp.org/index.php/OWASP_EU_Summit_2008>