__NOTOC__

## Platinum Sponsors

### [Insomnia Security Specialists](https://www.insomniasec.com)

![Insomnia_Logo-Updated.png](Insomnia_Logo-Updated.png
"Insomnia_Logo-Updated.png")

Insomnia is a New Zealand-based company dedicated to providing highly
specialised information security consultancy services to our many
customers. With 34 staff based out of offices in Auckland and
Wellington, alongside our global partners, we are well positioned to
assist our customers with their specialised security requirements.
Insomnia was founded in 2007 by Brett Moore, with the aim of bringing
together a team of like-minded, highly technically skilled,
results-driven, security professionals. Insomnia is a company whose
services are based around information security ‘with a difference’: In
that we specialise in researching new, and recently disclosed,
vulnerabilities, thereby pushing the boundaries of today’s network and
application security testing. More than simply downloading and using
widely available information related to security vulnerabilities, the
Insomnia team conducts independent research to discover new
vulnerabilities that would affect our customers systems.

## Gold Sponsors

### [Orion Health](https://www.orionhealth.com)

      ![Orion-Health-Logo.png](Orion-Health-Logo.png
"Orion-Health-Logo.png")

Orion Health is a global company that develops software to drive
efficiency in healthcare and improve healthcare outcomes. We deliver
technology solutions for integration, population health management and
precision medicine. Built on an open data platform, our innovative
end-to-end solution helps you to manage all types of health related
data; identify and prioritise your patients’ needs at a population and
individual level; effectively coordinate and manage patient care, and
proactively drive wellness across the community through prevention and
early intervention.

### [Quantum Security Specialists](https://www.quantumsecurity.co.nz)

![Quantum_Security_(strip)-02.png](Quantum_Security_\(strip\)-02.png
"Quantum_Security_(strip)-02.png")

Founded in 2014, Quantum Security Services aims to provide excellence
throughout our engagement process. We utilise only the best personnel
available in the market to ensure our clients receive the best. We
engage our clients throughout and provide comprehensive and readable
reports.

Quantum’s professional staff include OSCP, SABSA, CISA, CISSP and
PCI-QSA certified consultants, experienced account managers, and a
dedicated management team with a passion for information security.

### [Secure Code Warrior](https://securecodewarrior.com/)

![SCW_logo_transparent.png](SCW_logo_transparent.png
"SCW_logo_transparent.png")

Secure Code Warrior is a global security company that makes software
development better and more secure. Our vision is to empower developers
to be the first line of defense in their organization by making security
highly visible and providing them with the skills and tools to write
secure code from the beginning.

We have built a powerful platform that moves the focus from reaction to
prevention, training and equipping developers to think and act with a
security mindset as they build and verify their skills, gain real-time
advice and monitor skill development. Our customers include financial
institutions, telecommunications providers and global technology
companies in Europe, North America and Asia Pacific.

### [ZX Security](https://zxsecurity.co.nz/)

![ZX-Security-Logo--Black.png](ZX-Security-Logo--Black.png
"ZX-Security-Logo--Black.png")

ZX Security is a penetration testing company with head offices located
in Wellington. Our team conduct a variety of assessments from web
application and mobile reviews through to targeted phishing campaigns
and red team engagements.

## Sliver Sponsors

### [Aura Information Security](https://www.aurainfosec.com)

![Aura_PBK_Colour_Panel.jpg](Aura_PBK_Colour_Panel.jpg
"Aura_PBK_Colour_Panel.jpg")

**Sponsoring Provider - Training Day Tea Breaks**

Aura Information Security consists of a team of highly-skilled and
renowned information security professionals spanning Australia and New
Zealand. We offer an unprecedented range of services and level of
support for government, corporates and medium-sized businesses,
globally. Our consultants thrive on building rapport with, and becoming
trusted advisors to, our clients.

\--

## Bronze Sponsors

\--\>