## The presentation

![Owasp_logo_normal.jpg](Owasp_logo_normal.jpg
"Owasp_logo_normal.jpg")A presentation on the OpenSAMM Maturity Model,
and how it can be used to start or shape a software assurance program.

This presentation is given as part of [OWASP Software Assurance
Day](OWASP_Software_Assurance_Day_DC_2010 "wikilink") at the [| 13th
Annual Software Assurance
Forum](https://buildsecurityin.us-cert.gov/bsi/events/1133-BSI.html).

[Download the
presentation](Media:Shakeel_Tufail_2010-09_OWASP_DHS_SWA_Day_-_OpenSAMM.ppt "wikilink")
-- *Note, some of the images have been removed to reduce file size for
download.*

## The speaker

A speaker bio for Shakeel Tufail will be posted shortly.

## Notes

  - [Software Assurance Maturity Model
    (SAMM)](:Category:Software_Assurance_Maturity_Model "wikilink")

The Open SAMM project is committed to building a usable framework to
help organizations formulate and implement a strategy for application
security that's tailored to the specific business risks facing the
organization. Anyone can provide feedback on OSAMM at the
[OSAMM.ORG](http://www.opensamm.org/) web site. SAMM has Creative
Commons rights management.

OSAMM is used as a measuring stick against an organizationâ€™s security
practices and functions. The OSAMM maturity model should be used as a
scorecard for improving software assurance and provides prescriptive
guidance for technical and non-technical users.

OSAMM divides the SDLC into the governance, construction, verification,
and deployment business functions, each consisting of 12 security
practices. Each practice is a silo for improvement that can be performed
independently or as part of a plan. The maturity of each practice is
scored from 0 to 3.

The approach of SAMM is iterative and the goal is to have a phased
approach to assess which areas need the most work and prioritize. The
initial results are used to create a baseline roadmap from which the
phased approach would be developed. The resulting scorecard provides a
basis to perform a gap analysis.

A new OSAMM version will include new functionality of analyzing
feedback, case studies, and mapping of OSAMM to other regulations such
as PCI, COBIT, CMMI, and FISMA. See [Software Assurance (SwA)
Self-Assessment](https://buildsecurityin.us-cert.gov/swa/proself_assm.html)
where the SwA Processes and Practices Working Group has synthesized the
contributions of leading government and industry experts (including
OSAMM) into a set of high-level goals and supporting practices.

\--[Walter Houser](User:Walter_Houser "wikilink") 22:17, 5 October 2010
(UTC)

[Category:OWASP_Conference_Presentations](Category:OWASP_Conference_Presentations "wikilink")