FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE:

<center>

**<font size="+2">OWASP TOP 10 FOR 2010 RELEASED</font>**

</center>

<font size="-2"> </font>

<center>

**<font size="+1">Will You Help Us Reach Every Web Developer in the
World?</font>**

</center>

Columbia, MD 4/19/2010 —

Since 2003, application security researchers and experts from all over
the world at the Open Web Application Security Project (OWASP) have
carefully monitored the state of web application security and produced
an awareness document that is acknowledged and relied on by
organizations worldwide, including the PCI, DOD, FTC, and countless
others.

Today, OWASP has released an updated report capturing the top ten risks
associated with the use of web applications in an enterprise. This
colorful 22 page report is packed with examples and details that explain
these risks to software developers, managers, and anyone interested in
the future of web security. Everything at OWASP is free and open to
everyone, and you can download the latest OWASP Top 10 report for free
at:

<center>

**<http://www.owasp.org/index.php/Top_10>**

</center>

Dave Wichers, OWASP Board member and COO of Aspect Security, has managed
the project since its inception. “This year we have revamped the Top 10
to make it clear that we are talking about risks, not just
vulnerabilities. Attempts to prioritize vulnerabilities without context
just don’t make sense. You can’t make proper business decisions without
understanding the threat and impact to your business.” This new focus on
risks is intended to lead organizations to more mature understanding and
management of application security across their organization.

The time has come to get application security awareness out of the
security community and directly to the people who need to know it most.
This year, our audacious goal is to get the OWASP Top 10 into the hands
of **every web developer in the world** – but we need your help. We ask
anyone reading this; would you be willing to do one simple thing to help
protect the future of the Internet? If you know people who write code
for the web, could you forward them the OWASP Top 10 and ask them
kindly...

-----

<center>

**Are you familiar with all of the risks in the OWASP Top 10?**

</center>

<center>

**Will you make a commitment today to protect your code against the
OWASP Top 10?**

</center>

-----

For too long, many organizations have relied exclusively on an
occasional scan or penetration test to gain assurance for their internal
and external web applications. This approach is expensive and doesn't
provide much in the way of coverage. Like other types of security,
application security requires a risk management program that provides
visibility across the entire portfolio and strategic controls to improve
security. If your organization is ready to tackle application security,
there are dozens of free books, tools, projects, forums, mailing lists,
and more at OWASP. You can also join one of over 180 local chapters
worldwide or attend our high quality and inexpensive AppSec conferences.

The OWASP Top 10 for 2010 are:

  - A1: Injection
  - A2: Cross-Site Scripting (XSS)
  - A3: Broken Authentication and Session Management
  - A4: Insecure Direct Object References
  - A5: Cross-Site Request Forgery (CSRF)
  - A6: Security Misconfiguration
  - A7: Insecure Cryptographic Storage
  - A8: Failure to Restrict URL Access
  - A9: Insufficient Transport Layer Protection
  - A10: Unvalidated Redirects and Forwards

The 2010 update is based on more sources of web application
vulnerability information than the previous versions were when
determining the new Top 10. It also presents this information in a more
concise, compelling, and consumable manner, and includes strong
references to the many new openly available resources that can help
address each issue, particularly OWASP's new [Enterprise Security API
(ESAPI)](ESAPI "wikilink") and [Application Security Verification
Standard (ASVS)](ASVS "wikilink") projects.

**ABOUT OWASP**

The Open Web Application Security Project (OWASP) is a worldwide free
and open community focused on improving the security of application
software. Our mission is to make application security visible, so that
people and organizations can make informed decisions about true
application security risks. Everyone is free to participate in OWASP and
all of our materials are available under a free and open software
license. The OWASP Foundation is a 501c3 not-for-profit charitable
organization that ensures the ongoing availability and support for our
work from our members:
[Individuals](Template:OWASP_Members_Horizontal "wikilink"),
[Organizational
Supporters](Template:OWASP_Members_Horizontal "wikilink") & [Accredited
University Supporters](Template:OWASP_Members_Horizontal "wikilink").

Interviews: Jeff Williams – OWASP Chair and Top 10 Project Founder
(jeff.williams@owasp.,org)

Interviews: Dave Wichers – OWASP Board Member and Top 10 Project Lead
(dave.wichers@owasp.org)

Contact: Lorna Alamri – Connections Committee (lorna.alamri@owasp.org)

Company Name: Open Web Application Security Project (OWASP)

Web site address: <http://www.owasp.org>