**Marco M. Morana**

Marco Morana is project leader and the primary author of the OWASP
Application Security Guide for CISOs. Marco has been a member of the
OWASP London chapter (since 2012) and was previously (between 2007 and
2011) leader of the OWASP Cincinnati Chapter. Marco has been an OWASP
project contributor since 2006 and actively involved in evangelizing web
application security by giving presentations at local OWASP in different
cities in the USA: Cincinnati, Rochester, New York City, Los Angeles,
Orange County and Atlanta. Marco also gave talks on application security
at conferences in USA as well as Europe (Italy and Ireland) such as
BlackHat, CSI and more recently, at the CISO Forums and CISOs E-Crime
Series. Besides authoring the CISO guide, Marco authored the OWASP
application threat modeling methodology and contributed to the OWASP
security testing guide. In his current day job, Marco is senior VP at a
large global financial organization with responsibility on managing
technical risks for business critical applications. Marco is also a
technical board member advisor of security start-ups in USA and of
advisor of EU funded programs for cyber-crime research.

In the past, Marco was senior security consultant and provided software
and application security services to several FORTUNE 500 clients in the
banking, telecommunication, computers and financial business sectors.
Besides consulting, Marco had a career in the software industry as
security architect and software developer with responsibility to design
and develop mission critical security software for private businesses as
well for the US Government agencies.

Marco work on software and application security is widely published with
references in the 2007 State Of the Art report by the Information
Assurance Technology Analysis Center (IATAC) and the Security in the
SDLC document published by the US Department of Homeland Security (DHS).
For his security research work on secure email for NASA in 1999, Marco
received the Space Act Award.

Marco authored several articles on software security published by
several publications such as in-secure magazine, Secure Enterprise, ISSA
Journal and the C/C++ Users journal. More recently (2013) the OWASP
Guide for CISO has been featured in the [CSO
magazine](http://www.csoonline.com/article/741100/attention-cisos-strategy-is-the-only-security-).
Today (November 2013) Marco is finishing the co-authoring of a book on a
new methodology for analysing threats and modeling attacks against web
applications that will be released in 2014.

Note: updated on 11/4/2013