## The presentation

![Owasp_logo_normal.jpg](Owasp_logo_normal.jpg
"Owasp_logo_normal.jpg")A presentation about the OWASP Web Testing
Environment, previously the OWASP Live CD.

This presentation is given as part of [OWASP Software Assurance
Day](OWASP_Software_Assurance_Day_DC_2010 "wikilink") at the [| 13th
Annual Software Assurance
Forum](https://buildsecurityin.us-cert.gov/bsi/events/1133-BSI.html).

[Download the
presentation](Media:Matt_Tesauro_2010-09_OWASP_DHS_SWA_Day_-_WTE.ppt "wikilink")

## The speaker

[Matt Tesauro's Bio](http://www.owasp.org/index.php/User:Mtesauro)

## Notes

  - [OWASP Live CD Education
    Project](:Category:OWASP_LiveCD_Education_Project "wikilink")

The OWASP Live CD is an educational supplement project containing
tutorials, challenges and videos detailing the use of tools contained
within the OWASP LiveCD - LabRat. This project was sponsored by [OWASP
Spring Of Code 2007](OWASP_Spring_Of_Code_2007 "wikilink") and [Security
Distro](http://www.securitydistro.com/) (Assessment Criteria v1.0)

Itâ€™s hard to be a tester if you have never been a developer. The goal of
the CD was originally to create a ready-made environment in which to
perform testing. The CD showcases great tools and contains not only
OWASP tools.

The design goals include being easy to keep users up to date while being
easy to update.There were gaps between the tools and the testing guides.
The goal is to keep them aligned.

[The OWASP Web Testing Environment (WTE)](http://www.appseclive.org/) is
the new name of the DVD which includes 26 significant tools. WTE also
includes Firefox security add-ons, OWASP documents, a Top 10 risks list,
VM software, and many other. WTE is also used as an education tool. The
Webgoat tool is already being used for training classes.

WTE consists of more tools focused on developing instead of testing
focused; there are more tools available via a repository for packages.
Each tool will now automatically install dependent tools. WTE now runs
on Ubuntu and each tool has its own Debian package. You can mix and
match packages for only what you need to use. Some new features to be
added in future versions are virtual installs, USB bootable install,
customized versions of WTE via a la carte builds.

\--[Walter Houser](User:Walter_Houser "wikilink") 22:18, 5 October 2010
(UTC)

[Category:OWASP_Conference_Presentations](Category:OWASP_Conference_Presentations "wikilink")