## OWASP Dinner Defcon Blackhat 2007


Notes by [Tom](User:Brennan "wikilink")

OWASP Dinner Defcon Blackhat 2007
Date 5-Aug-2007

Tonight was the OWASP dinner that took place in las vegas after the
DefCon event at the Star Trek Experince/Hilton. With 18 persons in
attendance including Dinis Cruz, RSnake, Joe Bernik, Yiannis, Daniel
Herrera, David Byrne, Nathan Keltner, Mike Jones, Chris, Tory Silvers,
Ted Amor and many others that slip my mind by name at this min (sorry
guys...) Yea... Its 5am and lots of red bull to blame :) and the craps
table just went cold. Plus details from Blackhat, Shadowbar event.

So I wanted to recap several noted items as a result of the dinner:
\===Notes=== Ok so this is the OWASP Top 10 kinda...

1\. OWASP/Members should request a panel at such events
Defcon/Blackhat/Shmoocon/Cansec/EUSecWest/UNCon/CCC etc... And at panel
present OWASP as a member of on projects such as Top Ten / Testing Guide
/ Jbrofuzz / Labrat etc... Etc...

Why: Ongoing education and awareness - we actually took a random survey
of 50 persons and of such at Blackhat Defcon question was "Do you know
what OWASP is?" and the result was 42 huh / 8 yes that knew what it was
(3) of them goverment

Dinis suggested that all persons who want to be on the "OWASP Panel" at
future events simply add yourself to the wiki as there are funds to
offset travel to such when resources are perhaps not local

2\. Local Chapters - worldwide we have many local chapters and as we can
see from the upcoming Global Security Week (GSW) active chapters have
arranged a meeting during that week and are now posted on the OWASP GSW
page - 15 chapters thus far and we hope ALL of you will step up and
unify (kinda reminds me of Independance Day when they had a global
effort to shoot down the aliens.... Well Area 51 is nearby <grin>

3\. Clear Mission - it was discussed many times to have increase the
awareness of the global mission (short term goals and longer term goals)
and suggested to publish this clearly on its own page for chapter leads
to work on locally and globally.

4\. Funding - its was discussed that membership to OWASP should be more
than a "I'm on the mailing list" a membership drive should provide a
"welcome package" and Dinis asked Yiannis to lead this effort. (Shirt,
Annual Membership Card, Name listed on member in good standing page and
local chapter association) Today there is a way to become a
individual/corporate member however you submit money and..... That's it
(so why join today)

5\. OWASP Foundation - As a US Based 501(3)c non-profit, it is required
to file tax returns with the US Goverment with that said this is "OPEN"
information just like everything else with OWASP. It was suggested that
2006 and all annual reports moving into the future are .PDF and
available by inspection by all members so money in, money out and money
in reserve is stated.

6\. Local Chapters - Jeff discussed at Blackhat (he was not at the
dinner) with Dinis and myself at the kickoff of the OWASP party that
took place at the shadowbar during Blackhat (we had 300+ persons attend
this event - THANK YOU BREACH and everyone who helped out with it) the
desire to improve the "money model" with local chapters getting OWASP
points with a cash value for local chapter expences etc. Example chapter
A brings in 10 corporate memberships at 10k each (100k) and 100 paid
members at $100 (1k) then that local chapter would be able to purchase
with points (percentage to be determined) items (example: projectors,
letter head, gift cards, banners, etc.. Anything they need based on the
efforts of the chapter.

Also if you start up a chapter you should get a chapter welcome kit
(banner, owasp shirts for the leaders/board members and a "deposit" into
your chapters points account to get you started

7\. Projects - there are lots of wants in the form of projects and with
the next round of funding coming up for code projects, check out the
page for details. Project leads want update on payments for projects in
proce$$

8\. OWASP Event - eBay, Cali Dinis updated everyone on the commitment
from EBAY to host a upcoming worldwide event - he also had a reqest for
bandmembers :). As some may be aware Dinis is a drummer and he wants to
put together the OWASP band for this event and rent out a bar/club for
entertainment and jam with who ever wants to be in it..... Guess the
song list will be like 1. Java Java Java baby 2. DotNet Love 3. Wilma
Wiki 4. ID40 and more..... I suggested for the shooters in the group to
block time at the gun range (lots of fun at The Gun Store, LV) but with
california gun laws.... That is another Org/mailinglist

9\. Ideas suggestions - a suggestion was to use a PR firm to get out
press releases on completed projects once they are completed. This would
include a PR Newswire submission and other related tasks.

Number 10 -- Wow day light... Hmmm maybe its time to go back to the
craps tabe for a change of luck (6:00am now)

10\. Chapter leader meetings. Mailing lists are good and emails with
notes about items good but there is no replacement for face-time with
peers. At future events what ever they maybe
(Defcon/Blackhat/Shmoocon/Cansec/EUSecWest/UNCon/CCC etc...) Since there
will be a panel, let's have a chapter leader exclusive dinner to thank
the leaders for hard work, communicate chapter info and better
collobrate. It was also suggested that OWASP dinners such as this one
for 18 people w/$600 bills should be an approved "expence" (it is a
write off) not divided by the 18 people - logic stated was if OWASP can
give away 100k+ in code projects they can pick up a dinner bill.

### Actions

1\) tbd

[Category:Chapter Resources](Category:Chapter_Resources "wikilink")