# New Mailing-List "OWASP-Community"

## **[Sign-up here <https://lists.owasp.org/mailman/listinfo/owasp-community>](https://lists.owasp.org/mailman/listinfo/owasp-community)**

## Reasoning:

to open global OWASP discussions to the global community, beyond the
leaders-list. Over the last months and years, we noticed that we had a
number of discussions on the "leaders-list" that should in fact have
been open to many more of our members and active contributor as well.
Like proposing new ideas for projects and initiatives or e.g. the
discussion about RSA and the OWASP security statement. Note: The
leaders-list will remain very important and essential for all project
and chapter leadership questions. I just like to enable normal OWASP
members and contributors to exchange ideas and cooperate across chapter
boundaries as well. For example it would be nice if OWASP members could
coordinate worldwide across chapters to start projects and initiatives
or spontaneously join together for a new OWASP initiative. Some of these
discussions currently happen informally somewhere in the hallway of a
conference, or are done on the leaders list and then sometimes
communicated into the local chapters - or not. Which IMHO leaves out the
many OWASP members and active contributors, who might be interested in
joining interesting new projects or starting new initiatives or voicing
their opinion about what OWASP should do in global questions, but who
can not participate in the discussion directly because they are not
chapter leaders or project leaders.

## Name: "owasp-community"

## Scope:

topics in-scope of this mailing-list are new project and initiative
ideas that are looking for other fellow contributors and volunteers and
news that are relevant and valuable for the global OWASP community.
Explicitly out of scope is everything that can be discussed in a
specific project or chapter or group of chapters, and topics that are
already covered by the scope of any other mailing-list like the
governance and project lists. And as this is a global mailing-list with
potentially a lot of subscribers, we ask members to be very cautious and
conservative in posting there and follow the scope definition very
carefully. Furthermore, please refrain from cross-posting to this
mailing-list. And be considerate whether you really need to reply to the
whole list of thousands of people if e.g. you just want to sign up to a
new initiative. A direct reply to the person who sent the initial
message can spare others a lot of email traffic.

## Target group:

all OWASP leaders, active contributors and those who are interested in
joining a project or initiative and don't know yet which one, OWASP
members, and anyone interested in the global OWASP community.

## Sign-up:

The list is free for anyone to subscribe / unsubscribe.

**[Please sign-up here
<https://lists.owasp.org/mailman/listinfo/owasp-community>](https://lists.owasp.org/mailman/listinfo/owasp-community)**

At the start, I suggest that the list should be pre-filled with all
members of the leaders-list and all OWASP members (as per the membership
list) with the option to unsubscribe like from any other free
mailing-list. Going forward I propose to add a flag at the membership
renewal form (i.e. when you pay your membership fee) that you want to be
on the global "OWASP-community" mailing-list (with the default setting
to be "yes"). And I would appreciate if we could send an email to all
chapter mailing-lists to inform people there about this new global OWASP
community mailing-list which is open to everyone.