*Sent to owasp-all mailing list on 31st Jan 2007*

## OWASP Newsletter \#4 (31-Jan-07)

Welcome to OWASP Newsletter \#4

  - **[OWASP Top 10 2007 RC1](Top_10_2007 "wikilink")**
    As mentioned last week, we finally got the new version RC1 (Release
    Candidate 1) of the OWASP Top 10 out for review, criticism and
    comment. We take all comments very seriously (see[Sylvan von
    Stuppe](http://sylvanvonstuppe.blogspot.com/2007/01/owasp-top-10-2007-update-rc1.html),
    so please do spend the time to check this version and speak up your
    mind.

<!-- end list -->

  - **[WebGoat](OWASP_WebGoat_Project "wikilink")**
    See below for a feature on one of our longest and most famous
    projects, which has released WebGoat 5.0 RC1 containing a bunch of
    new lessons created via an [OWASP Autumn of
    Code](Owasp_Autumn_Of_Code_2006 "wikilink") sponsorship.

<!-- end list -->

  - **OWASP Grants**
    Talking about the AoC (Autumn of Code), if all goes well we will
    close it officially next week, and will announce the SpoC. SpoC has
    you must be guessing by now, is the OWASP Spring of Code (still with
    no connection with Google's Summer of Code) :)

<!-- end list -->

  - **Support for Non-Profits**
    As you can see on the updated pages section, we also made a small
    change in our membership criteria, where we changed the 'Educational
    Members' category to be 'Educational and Non-Profit Members'.

<!-- end list -->

  - **RSA Meetup**
    If you are going to the RSA conference next week, drop a line to
    Brian Bertacini from the San Jose OWASP Chapter for details on an
    OWASP get-together.

**Recommended Reading**

  - The brilliant [OWASP Testing Guide
    Presentation](:Image:OWASP_Testing_Guide_Presentation.zip "wikilink")
  - [SDLC for the
    “Geek”](http://blogs.owasp.org/seba/2007/01/29/sdlc-for-the-geek/),[Cross-Chapter
    cooperation](http://blogs.owasp.org/seba/2007/01/23/cross-chapter-cooperation/)
  - [Reporting Web
    Vulns](http://blogs.owasp.org/dacort/2007/01/31/reporting-web-vulns/)
  - the [Waterfall 2006](http://www.waterfall2006.com/) conference (I
    think next year I will be doing a presentation on 'Security by
    Obscurity, don't advertise (or link to) your site' :)
  - <http://www.securitybullshit.com> - *"Humorous look at an industry
    spinning out of control"* by the uncompromising Mark Curphey

Don't forget, if you want something to appear in the next version,
please add it to [OWASP Newsletter 5](OWASP_Newsletter_5 "wikilink").

Dinis Cruz

Chief OWASP Evangelist

London, UK

## OWASP projects that need your help

  - [OWASP Top 10 2007 RC1](Top_10_2007 "wikilink") - Convert the Word
    (or PDF) file to wiki pages on owasp.org (open to all since anybody
    can edit the owasp.org website).
  - [OWASP Top 10 2007 RC1](Top_10_2007 "wikilink") - We are opening
    review of the Top 10 2007 until February 28, 2007. Please review the
    document and provide feedback to the owasp-topten@lists.owasp.org
    mail list. If you cannot make public submissions or feedback but
    still wish to make your voice heard, please mail vanderaj (at)
    owasp.org. **Please note: This document is not to be used or
    referenced until after its release.**
  - [OWASP Testing Project
    v2.0](OWASP_Testing_Project_v2.0_-_Review_Guidelines "wikilink") -
    Now that the The OWASP Testing Guide v2.0 has reached the 'Release
    Candidate 1 milestone, the time has come to make sure that
    everything is 100% and that there is nothing major missing (review
    process ends on the 10th of Feb).
  - Online Questionaires: I (Dinis) want to do a OWASP wide survey, what
    solution should I use to create, deploy and manage it?
  - WordPress guru needed: Our blogs (http://blogs.owasp.org/) still
    looks miserable. We need somebody to help Mike de Libero to sort it
    out (and while you're there get a feed to put on owasp.org and the
    next version of the OWASP newsletter)

## Featured Project: WebGoat 5.0 RC1

**WebGoat Overview**

[WebGoat](:Category:OWASP_WebGoat_Project "wikilink") is a deliberately
insecure J2EE web application maintained by OWASP designed to teach web
application security lessons. In each lesson, users must demonstrate
their understanding of a security issue by exploiting a real
vulnerability in the WebGoat application. For example, in one of the
lessons the user must use SQL injection to steal fake credit card
numbers. The application is a realistic teaching environment, providing
users with hints and code to further explain the lesson.

To get started, read the [User and Install
Guide](http://www.owasp.org/index.php/WebGoat_User_and_Install_Guide_Table_of_Contents%7CWebGoat)

**WebGoat 5.0 Release Candidate 1**

Thursday January 17th, WebGoat 5.0 Release Candidate 1 was released.
Special thanks to the many people who have sent comments and suggestions
and those who have put in the effort to contribute their time to this
release.

The 5.0 release would not have been possible without the efforts of
Sherif Koussa and [OWASP Autumn of Code
2006](Owasp_Autumn_Of_Code_2006 "wikilink").

This version can be downloaded from OWASP's Sourceforce repository:
[WebGoat 5.0
RC1](http://sourceforge.net/project/showfiles.php?group_id=64424&package_id=61824)

Please send all comments to webgoat AT g2-inc DOT com regarding this
release candidate.

## Featured Item: OWASP Documentation Projects

I wrote this on an email the other day, and realized that it was a good
list of our best documentation projects:

  - [OWASP Top Ten Project](:Category:OWASP_Top_Ten_Project "wikilink")
    "The OWASP Top Ten provides a powerful awareness document for web
    application security. The OWASP Top Ten represents a broad consensus
    about what the most critical web application security flaws are.
    Project members include a variety of security experts from around
    the world who have shared their expertise to produce this list"
  - [OWASP Guide Project](:Category:OWASP_Guide_Project "wikilink") "The
    Guide is aimed at architects, developers, consultants and auditors
    and is a comprehensive manual for designing, developing and
    deploying secure web applications."
  - [OWASP AppSec FAQ
    Project](:Category:OWASP_AppSec_FAQ_Project "wikilink") "This FAQ
    answers some of the questions that developers have about Web
    Application Security. This FAQ is not specific to a particular
    platform or language. It addresses the common threats to web
    applications and are applicable to any platform."
  - [OWASP Testing Guide](:Category:OWASP_Testing_Project "wikilink")
    "This project's goal is to create a "best practices" penetration
    testing framework which users can implement in their own
    organizations and a "low level" penetration testing guide that
    describes how to find certain issues."
  - [OWASP CLASP Project](:Category:OWASP_CLASP_Project "wikilink")
    "CLASP (Comprehensive, Lightweight Application Security Process)
    provides a well-organized and structured approach for moving
    security concerns into the early stages of the software development
    lifecycle, whenever possible."
  - [OWASP Honeycomb
    Project](:Category:OWASP_Honeycomb_Project "wikilink") "In the
    Honeycomb project, OWASP is assembling the most comprehensive and
    integrated guide ever attempted to the fundamental building blocks
    of application security (principles, threats, attacks,
    vulnerabilities, and countermeasures) through collaborative
    community efforts."
  - [OWASP Application Security Assessment Standards
    Project](:Category:OWASP_Application_Security_Assessment_Standards_Project "wikilink")
    "Currently there is a lack of standardization over what constitutes
    an application security assessment. With no single set of criteria
    being referenced, it is suggested that OWASP establish a set of
    standards defining and establishing a baseline approach to
    conducting differing types/levels of application security
    assessment. The standards should be flexible in design to
    accommodate a range of security assurance levels. The standards
    should not be viewed as placing requirements on any party. Rather,
    the standards should make recommendations about what should be done
    to be consistent with what the OWASP community believes is best
    practice. Adhering to the standards should help increase end user
    organization confidence that assessments meet an industry
    agreed-upon approach.?"
  - [OWASP Application Security Metrics
    Project](:Category:OWASP_Application_Security_Metrics_Project "wikilink")
    "This OWASP Project will first identify and provide the OWASP
    community a set of application security metrics that have been found
    by contributors to be effective in measuring application security.
    This will be followed by the development of new metrics that build
    on the initial metrics foundation to fulfill unmet metrics
    requirements. The goals of this Project are to make a baseline set
    of application security metrics available to the OWASP community and
    subsequently to provide a forum for the community to contribute
    metrics back into the baseline."

## Latest additions to the WIKI

#### New Pages

  - [Top 10 2007](Top_10_2007 "wikilink") - Top 10 2007 RC1 Public
    Comments & Review page
  - [Guide to SQL Injection](Guide_to_SQL_Injection "wikilink") -
    Article examining the possibility of tampered SQL query data
    exploiting your database and/or application.
  - [Member Offers](Member_Offers "wikilink") - New offers available for
    all individual OWASP Members and employees of OWASP Corporate
    Members.
  - [Announce:Web Honeynet](Announce:Web_Honeynet "wikilink") - Web
    Honeynet project announcement by SecuriTeam and the ISOTF.
  - [Code Auditor Workbench
    Tool](Code_Auditor_Workbench_Tool "wikilink") - Ideas about a source
    code analysis tool to aid security consultants
  - [OWASP News 2006](OWASP_News_2006 "wikilink"), [OWASP Community
    2006](OWASP_Community_2006 "wikilink") - Pages containing the OWASP
    news stories and community events from 2006.

#### Updated pages

  - [Membership](Membership "wikilink") - Add reference to the [Member
    Offers](Member_Offers "wikilink") page and changed the 'Educational
    Members' category to be 'Educational and Non-Profit Members'
  - [Installer details for
    ORG](ORG_%28OWASP_Report_Generator%29#Building_the_Installer "wikilink")
    - Information on how to build an installer for ORG using WiX
  - [SQL Injection](SQL_Injection "wikilink") - Updated with links to
    the SQL Injection pages in the OWASP Guide, OWASP Code Review and
    OWASP Testing Guide
  - [OWASP Stinger Project‎](:Category:OWASP_Stinger_Project "wikilink")
    - Updated with new release information (2.4 RC1)
  - [.Net Research Links](.Net_Research_Links "wikilink") - Several new
    CLR links
  - [Fuzzing](Fuzzing "wikilink")
  - [Testing for SQL
    Injection](Testing_for_SQL_Injection_\(OWASP-DV-005\) "wikilink") ,
    [Testing: Information
    Gathering](Testing:_Information_Gathering "wikilink") , [Reviewing
    Code for SQL Injection](Reviewing_Code_for_SQL_Injection "wikilink")
  - minor edits or comments: [Talk:JAAS Tomcat Login
    Module](Talk:JAAS_Tomcat_Login_Module "wikilink") , (added link to
    Orizon Blog) , [OWASP Stinger 3
    Ideas](OWASP_Stinger_3_Ideas "wikilink")

#### New Documents & Presentations from chapters

  - [OWASP Testing Guide
    Presentation](:Image:OWASP_Testing_Guide_Presentation.zip "wikilink")
  - [OWASP Top 10 2007
    RC1.pdf](:Image:OWASP_Top_10_2007_RC1.pdf "wikilink") or [OWASP Top
    10 2007 RC1.doc](:Image:OWASP_Top_10_2007_RC1.doc "wikilink") - the
    new version of the OWASP Top 10 (Release Candidate 1)
  - From the [Belgium](Belgium "wikilink") chapter:
      - Jan 07:
          - [OWASP BE 2007-01-23 OWASP
            Update.zip](:Image:OWASP_BE_2007-01-23_OWASP_Update.zip "wikilink")
            - OWASP Update including 2006 poll results
          - [OWASP BE 2007-01-23
            WebGoat-Pantera.zip](:Image:OWASP_BE_2007-01-23_WebGoat-Pantera.zip "wikilink")
            - OWASP WebGoat and Pantera presentation
          - [OWASP BE 2007-01-23 AOP
            security.zip](:Image:OWASP_BE_2007-01-23_AOP_security.zip "wikilink")
            - AOP Security presentation
  - From the [Israel](Israel "wikilink") chapter
      - Jan 07
          - [of the Universal XSS PDF vulnerability - Cause, Solutions
            and Fun
            Stuff](http://www.owasp.org/images/4/4b/OWASP_IL_The_Universal_XSS_PDF_Vulnerability.pdfAnalysis)
      - Nov 06 (OWASP IL mini conference):
          - [Malicious content in enterprise
            portals](http://www.owasp.org/images/8/89/Enterprise_portals_security.pdf)
          - [Real vs. Virtual
            Patching](http://www.owasp.org/images/6/65/Secure_coding.pdf)
          - ["The Core Rule Set": Generic detection of application layer
            attacks](http://www.owasp.org/images/d/dd/The_Core_Rule_Set.pdf)
          - [The OWASP Top Ten
            Backdoors](http://www.owasp.org/images/a/ae/OWASP_10_Most_Common_Backdoors.pdf)
          - [Hacking The
            Framework](http://www.owasp.org/images/2/22/Hacking_The_FrameWork.ppt)
      - Jul 06:
          - [Exposing cryptography for software
            developers](http://www.owasp.org/images/3/36/OWASP_IL_0706_Comsec_ShayZ_Crypto_1_0_2.pdf)
          - [Preventing Spoofing, Phishing and Spamming by Secure
            Usability and
            Cryptography](http://www.owasp.org/images/1/10/OWASP_IL_Preventing_spoofing_phishing_and_spam.pdf)
  - [ValidationQuestionnaire.doc](:Image:ValidationQuestionnaire.doc "wikilink")

#### Latest Blog entries

  - from [Life of an OWASP Chapter Leader](http://blogs.owasp.org/seba/)
      - [SDLC for the
        “Geek”](http://blogs.owasp.org/seba/2007/01/29/sdlc-for-the-geek/)
      - [Cross-Chapter
        cooperation](http://blogs.owasp.org/seba/2007/01/23/cross-chapter-cooperation/)
  - from [/dev/sec/webapp](http://blogs.owasp.org/dacort/)
      - [Reporting Web
        Vulns](http://blogs.owasp.org/dacort/2007/01/31/reporting-web-vulns/)
  - from [Security Tales From The .Net
    Crypt](http://blogs.owasp.org/keremkusmezer/)
      - [Weird
        Thing](http://blogs.owasp.org/keremkusmezer/2007/01/22/weird-thing/)
      - [System.Net Logging
        Tips](http://blogs.owasp.org/keremkusmezer/2007/01/23/systemnet-logging-tips/)
      - [Great Project About
        Reflection](http://blogs.owasp.org/keremkusmezer/2007/01/23/great-project-about-reflection/)
        (.Net not Java)
      - [Buffer OverFlow in ILASM and
        ILDASM](http://blogs.owasp.org/keremkusmezer/2007/01/23/buffer-overflow-in-ilasm-and-ildasm/)
  - from [Orizon post](http://blogs.owasp.org/orizon/)
      - [XML
        galore](http://blogs.owasp.org/orizon/2007/01/23/xml-galore/)
      - [Parsing
        freedom](http://blogs.owasp.org/orizon/2007/01/22/parsing-freedom/)
  - from [Dinis Cruz Blog](http://blogs.owasp.org/diniscruz/)
      - [An example of a flawed XSS BlackList
        filter](http://blogs.owasp.org/diniscruz/2007/01/23/an-example-of-a-flawed-xss-blacklist-filter/)

#### OWASP Community

  - Feb 26-Mar 1 - [Black Hat DC](http://www.blackhat.com)

<!-- end list -->

  -
    OWASP members receive a $100 Briefings discount by inserting
    BH7DCASSOC in the box marked “Coupon Codes”

<!-- end list -->

  - Feb 22 (18:00h) - [London chapter meeting](London "wikilink")
  - Feb 20 (18:00h) - [Rochester chapter meeting](Rochester "wikilink")
  - Feb 15 (18:00h) - [Seattle chapter meeting](Seattle "wikilink")
  - Feb 15 (18:00h) - [Washington DC (MD) chapter
    meeting](Washington_DC "wikilink")
  - Feb 15 (18:00h) - [Washington DC (N. VA) chapter
    meeting](Virginia_\(Northern_Virginia\) "wikilink")
  - Feb 15 (18:00h) - [Seattle chapter meeting](Seattle "wikilink")
  - Feb 14 (18:00h) - [Toronto chapter meeting](Toronto "wikilink")
  - Feb 13 (18:00h) - [Ireland chapter meeting](Ireland "wikilink")
  - Feb 12 (18:30h) - [Switzerland chapter
    meeting](Switzerland "wikilink")
  - Feb 7 (18:30h) - [Boston chapter meeting](Boston "wikilink")
  - Feb 6-7 -
    [Italy@InfoSecurity](Italy#February_6th-8th.2C_2007_-_InfoSecurity "wikilink")
  - Feb 6 (18:00h) - [Melbourne chapter meeting](Melbourne "wikilink")
  - Feb 2 (14:00h) - [Chennai chapter meeting](Chennai "wikilink")
  - Jan 31 (15:00h) - [Mumbai chapter meeting](Mumbai "wikilink")
  - Jan 30 (11:30h) - [Austin chapter meeting](Austin "wikilink")

#### Application Security News

  - Jan 23 - [Greasemonkey Backdoor Proof of
    Concept](http://www.gnucitizen.org/projects/greasecarnaval) - A
    simple [Greasemonkey](http://greasemonkey.mozdev.org/) script that
    illustrates the potential for abuse by hooking a backdoor to your
    browser using Javascipt and AJAX techniques.

<!-- end list -->

  - Jan 23 - [Web Honeynet Project
    Announcement](Announce:Web_Honeynet "wikilink") - The newly formed
    Web Honeynet Project from SecuriTeam and the ISOTF will in the next
    few months announce research on real-world web server attacks which
    infect web servers with: Tools, connect-back shells, bots,
    downloaders, malware, etc. which are all cross-platform (for web
    servers) and currently exploited in the wild.

## OWASP References in the Media

This week we have two examples of non compliance with the [OWASP brand
usage rules](OWASP_brand_usage_rules "wikilink"), namely the \#*8. The
OWASP Brand must not be used in any materials that could mislead readers
by narrowly interpreting a broad application security category. For
example, a vendor product that can find or protect against forced
browsing must not claim that they address all of the access control
category.*

  - [Java Source Code Analysis Available for Developers to Improve
    Software Security and
    Quality](http://www.embedded-computing.com/news/db/?5197) - quote
    *"Java Security Analysis Aligned with OWASP -- KDJ's vulnerability
    analysis provides excellent coverage of the vulnerabilities from the
    OWASP Top 10 list."*
  - [Ounce Labs Simplifies Regulatory and Policy Compliance With New
    SmartAudit](http://www.marketwire.com/mw/release_html_b1?release_id=208677)
    - quote : *"1. OWASP Top Ten: Identifies the existence and location
    in the source code of any of the Top 10 most critical web
    application security vulnerabilities, a list complied by the Open
    Web Application Security Project."*

The problem with these claims is that it is very hard to know what
exactly do they mean. At least in KDJ's case they say *"...excellent
coverage..."* versus Ounce Labs' *"...any of the Top 10..."*.

One idea that is currently being debated is if OWASP brand usage rules
should state that if a company makes claims such as the ones above in
relation with the OWASP Top 10 (or other OWASP materials), they MUST
include a reference to a publicly accessible page that ‘explains’ how
well they ‘think’ each element of the Top 10 is covered.

__NOEDITSECTION__

[Category:OWASP Orizon
Project](Category:OWASP_Orizon_Project "wikilink")