#### Main

(**The text below is to be reviewed**)
OWASP's mission is to make application security "visible," so that
people and organizations can make informed decisions about application
security risks, and as a value-add towards this end we have attempted to
centralize OWASP project deliverable-based services for you in a single
OWASP Commercial Services Registry. OWASP is not affiliated with any
technology company, and OWASP does not endorse commercial products or
services, although we support the informed use of commercial security
technology, and that is the ultimate goal of this registry.

Encouraging the formation of commercial services (verification,
implementation services, process improvement, and training) benefits
both industry and OWASP by promoting the development and consumption by
industry and government of tools and techniques that are based on OWASP
open standards, best practices and design patterns. Similar to many
open-source software projects, OWASP produces many types of materials in
a collaborative, open way. The OWASP Foundation is a not-for-profit
entity that ensures the project’s long-term success, providing sound
foundations to build commercial services upon.

Firms listed in this registry follow strict rules to ensure the
preservation of OWASP’s non-commercial nature. Firms listed in this
registry share our belief that application security needs to be
approached as a people, process, and technology problem, because the
most effective approaches to application security include improvements
in all of these areas.

#### Registry list

Organizations listed are not accredited by OWASP. Neither their products
nor services have been endorsed by OWASP. Please note that the registry
is currently under development and [listing
requirements](http://docs.google.com/View?id=dcn8962c_91f99cnthr) are
subject to change.

  -
  -
  -
#### Project About

__NOTOC__ <headertabs />

[OWASP Related Commercial Services](Category:OWASP_Project "wikilink")
[Category:OWASP_Document](Category:OWASP_Document "wikilink") [OWASP
Alpha Quality
Document](Category:OWASP_Alpha_Quality_Document "wikilink")