## Introduction

### A Technical Knowledge Base for Banking Malware Threats

## Protecting Banking Resources

### Are your resources protected?

### Enumerate the interesting targets

### Define the path to the targets (Transition graphs)

### Apply trust boundaries (security measures)

### Define the weaknesses of the security measures adopted

## Appendix A: Security Considerations about Authentication Solutions and Malware

Actually Banking Malware families can bypass the vast majority of the
world most secure authentication. How? The answer is simple: by
tailoring an appropriate attack on the specific authentication schema
with a bit of social engineering. Malware Authors know that the weakest
link most of the times is the user himself.

For more information:

  - <http://www.slideshare.net/marco_morana/owasp-app-seceu2011version1>
  - <http://www.slideshare.net/guestb1956e/csi2008-gunter-ollmann-maninthebrowser-presentation>
  - <https://www.owasp.org/images/e/e4/AppsecEU09_The_Bank_in_The_Browser_Presentation_v1.1.pdf>

### TextField Static Password

**Risk Evaluation:**

Vulnerable to vast majority of all Banking Malware families in their
default configuration

![static_password.png](static_password.png "static_password.png")

**Description**

A password is a secret word or string of characters that is used for
authentication, and is the world most used and simplest way of
authenticating a user to a computer. “Static” means that Password does
not change over time, unless manually updated. Textbox input field is
the HTML element were password is inserted and this element is
compatible with HID (Human Input Devices) such as hardware keyboards and
Virtual Keyboards.

**How gets defeated**

Almost All banking malware can automatically log passwords using two
components: Keylogging and Form Grabbing. A software Keylogger component
can use a number of very different techniques, because operative systems
offer many different ways to know which key is pressing a user. Even if
this component seems very powerful, it has the disadvantage of not
logging the Clipboard. Users may copy and paste passwords for simplicity
or security reasons: many password wallets suggest to use this approach
(e.g. [KeePassX](http://www.keepassx.org/) ). For this reason Banking
Malware Authors prefer to log web based credentials using form grabbing
components instead of keyloggers: from Wikipedia “this method intercepts
the on submit API in browsers and collects web form data before it
passes over the internet.”. Since FormGrabbing is actually used by any
major Banking Malware Family (e.g. Zeus, Spyeye, IceIX etc.) “text
field” static password does not represent a secure way of
authentication. In addition Malware families can automatically log any
password field without using any particular configuration.

''' External References: '''

  - <http://www.infosectoday.com/Articles/Form_Grabbing/Form_Grabbing.htm>

### Javascript Keyboard

**Risk Evaluation:**

Vulnerable to vast majority of all Banking Malware families with a
minimal configuration of the malicious agent. This solution alone does
not give a substantial improvement in terms of security comparing it to
the Password TextBox input, however attacker takes more time in
analyzing puzzled screen-shot passwords so it's a valid approach in
terms of defense in depth.

![js_virtual_keyboard.png](js_virtual_keyboard.png
"js_virtual_keyboard.png")

**Description**

Javascript Keyboard was introduced more than a decade ago in response to
Keylogging and Form Grabbing techniques used by Trojan Stealers.
Javascript Keyboard works by creating a virtual keyboard on the screen
with a dynamic layout; the random disposition of the keys represent a
sort of ["turing test"](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Turing_test) that
could be understood by human users but not by malicious software agents.

**How gets defeated**

Back in year 2002, after a couple of years, Malware Authors realized
that they could visually grab images of the clicked key pressed (click
area grabbing) or to video record the sequence of key pressed. "Click
Grabbing" feature was born and with a minimal configuration was possible
to defeat javascript password in a standard and efficient way. This kind
of attack simply stores the information remotely for a subsequent
interpretation by a human attacker.

**External References:**

From Fortiguard (Zeus trojan defeats a Virtual Javascript Keypad)

  - <http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=b9Vb4zS6ZmE&feature=player_embedded>

### Behavior Based Authentication

### TAN (Gridcard, Scratch Card)

### OTP (Time Based, Click Based)

**Risk Evaluation:** ![otp_token.png](otp_token.png "otp_token.png")
Risk Evaluation: Basic OTPs are vulnerable to HTML Injection and to
other more sophisticated techniques, but give to the bank the following
important improvements in terms of security:

  - Tokens are valid for a very short period of time. Attackers need to
    engage human assistance to successfully abuse the compromised tokens
    in the valid time-window . This involves using Instant Messaging and
    user monitoring that leverages additional costs at their side.
  - This authentication measure may need UI redressing or automation to
    be bypassed, introducing important anomalies that can be detected.

![otp_ui_redressing.png](otp_ui_redressing.png
"otp_ui_redressing.png")

**Description**

A one-time password (OTP) is a password that is valid for only one login
session or transaction. OTPs avoid a number of shortcomings that are
associated with traditional (static) passwords. OTPs are difficult for
human beings to memorize. Therefore they require additional technology
in order to work and this technology may be implemented in software
tools or by using external hardware devices (Hardware tokens). Basic
OTPs are based on cryptographic One-Way Algorithms and initialized with
a different key per each user to avoid impersonation attacks. In
addition each token usage is blacklisted and cannot be used a second
time to avoid replay attacks. Since basic OTP standards do not have a
direct communication with the remote server, they need indirect
standards for assuring synchronization with the remote infrastructure.
Synchronization can be achieved on time-synchronization between the
authentication server and the client providing the password (OTPs are
valid only for a short period of time) or computing the number of
previously generated passwords and set a range of valid passwords (if
the user press to often the button the device will go out of sync).

**How gets defeated**

Even if this technology seems very resilient against malware attacks, it
doesn't\! Basic Otps can be defeated very easily with User Interface
redressing. This attack is accomplished using the infamous features
called WebInjects that permit to inject arbitrary HTML into the original
Bank Login pages. As we previously said, the Token is valid for a single
transaction and is blacklisted after the first usage. Malware attackers
will never let the token to arrive at the bank, so the bank can not
blacklist that information. To defeat time restriction window, they also
may make use of Instant Messaging plugins to have a real time
communication of the token to the attacker.

### CAP (Random Nonce, Challenge Response)

### SMS Challenges

### MSISDN (Caller-ID Authentication)

## Appendix B: Banking Malware Families (Active in 2012)

Taken as inspiration from Marco Morana's Presentation and from other
sources (e.g. slides 26-30 The Bank in the Browser Presentation - G.
Fedon ), here is a quick summary of Banking Malware features updated as
of 2012.

![Malware_Attack_Vectors2.png](Malware_Attack_Vectors2.png
"Malware_Attack_Vectors2.png")

Schema summarizes every banking trojan by giving the following
informations:

  - **Attack Capabilities**
  - **Type**

**Attack Capabilites** describes the features of the involved trojan,
and immediately below the technique used to implement the given feature.

  - **HTTP Injection**
  - **Browse Redirect**
  - **Form Grabbing**
  - **Stored Password Theft**
  - **Keystroke Logging**
  - **Bypass MFA**
  - **ScreenCapture / VideoCapture**
  - **Certificate Theft**
  - **Install Backdoor**
  - **Instant Message**

**Type** field describes what kind how the malware operates:

  - **Automatic**
  - **Manual**

### Spyeye

SpyEye is considered the successor of ZeuS and globally considered as
the most advanced Banking Malware kit actually used.

This kit was conceived as botnet easy to manage via a web based control
panel.

SpyEye relies upon MiTB ( Man in The Browser ) attacks to accomplish its
task, it provides a custom Encrypted Configuration File where there are:

  - **Plugins**
  - **Web Injection Code**
  - **Collectors List- where stolen data is sent**

SpyEye is capable of HTML code injection in the following browsers:

  - **FireFox**
  - **Internet Explorer**
  - **Chrome**
  - **Opera**

List of commonly used Plugins:

  - **ccgrabber** - used to collect Credit Card numbers by analyzing
    POST requests.
  - **ffcertgrabber** - used to steal Firefox stored Certificates.
  - **ftpbc** - used to reverse ftp connections to the bot.
  - **socks5** - allows reverse connections via a proxy server.
  - **billinghammer** - charges Credit Cards by using stolen card data.
  - **ddos** - plugin used to ddos a specified target.
  - **bugreport** - send crash reports to the bot master.
  - **SpySpread** - capability to spread via USB, IM Messages
  - **rdp** - Remote Desktop capability

SpyEye kit, actually reached version 1.3.48

In the second half of 2011 appeared a mobile edition of SpyEye, called
SpitMo specifically designed to steal mTAN (mobile TAN) authentication
systems.
[SpitMo](http://blogs.mcafee.com/mcafee-labs/spitmo-vs-zitmo-banking-trojans-target-android/)

Recently (Jenuary 2012) appeared a SpyEye Campaign able to [Hide its
Fraud
Footprint](http://nakedsecurity.sophos.com/2012/01/05/spyeye-bank-trojan-hides-its-fraud-footprint/)
also called Post-Transaction Attack

Resources:

  - [A Guide to SpyEye C\&C
    Messages](http://blog.fortinet.com/a-guide-to-spyeye-cc-messages/)
  - [New SpyEye Gains Zeus Features – A Detailed Analysis of SpyEye
    Trojan
    v1.3](http://blogs.rsa.com/rsafarl/new-spyeye-gains-zeus-features-a-detailed-analysis-of-spyeye-trojan-v1-3/)
  - [DDOS plugin for
    SpyEye](http://cert.lexsi.com/weblog/index.php/2011/02/23/408-ddos-plugin-for-spyeye)
  - [SpyEye steals your data. Even in a limited
    account](http://www.prevx.com/blog/149/SpyEye-steals-your-data-Even-in-a-limited-account.html)
  - [The SpyEye Interface, Part 1:
    CN 1](http://blog.trendmicro.com/the-spyeye-interface-part-1-cn-1/)
  - [The SpyEye Interface Part 2:
    SYN 1](http://blog.trendmicro.com/the-spyeye-interface-part-2-syn-1/)
  - [SpyEye 1.3.4.x Comes with Noteworthy Modifications
    (Part 1)](http://blog.trendmicro.com/spyeye-1-3-4-x-comes-with-noteworthy-modifications/)
  - [SpyEye 1.3.4.x Comes with Noteworthy Modifications
    (Part 2)](http://blog.trendmicro.com/spyeye-1-3-4-x-comes-with-noteworthy-modifications-part-2/)
  - [SpyEye being kicked to the curb by its
    customers?](http://www.damballa.com/downloads/r_pubs/RN_SpyEye-Kicked-to-Curb_Bodmer.pdf)

Tracking SpyEye:

  - [SpyEye Tracker](https://spyeyetracker.abuse.ch/)

### Zeus

ZeuS is a Banking Trojan identified for the first time in 2007, designed
as **HTTP Based Botnet** specifically crafted to steal Online Banking
Credentials.

Despite the fact that ZeuS Kit is no longer developed, infection
statistics that can be checked here [ZeuS
Statistics](https://zeustracker.abuse.ch/statistic.php) clearly
demonstrates that this Trojan has a remarkable diffusion.

The ZeuS Kit functionality is based on MiTB attacks, an encrypted
configuration file contains URL Triggers and HTML Code to be Injected.

In the past year appeared also a ZeuS for mobile called ZitMo, developed
to bypass mTAN authentication system, more information can be reached
here:

  - [The ZitMo Trojan Bypasses Online Banking
    Security](http://www.kaspersky.com/about/news/virus/2011/Teamwork_How_the_ZitMo_Trojan_Bypasses_Online_Banking_Security)
  - [Zitmo Trojan for Android defeats two-factor
    authentication](http://www.virusbtn.com/news/2011/07_11.xml)

2011 was also the year of ZeuS Source Code leak, this essentially lead
to a number of new ZeuS Variants, here the most significant:

  - **ICE IX**
  - **ZeuS P2P Edition**
  - **Citadel**
  - **GameOver**

The most interesting variant is the P2P one, where ZeuS gained P2P
Botnet and DGA (Domain Generation Algorithm) capabilities, that make
ZeuS able to interact with other victims (nodes) and get Updated
Binaries and Configurations.

[Citadel](http://krebsonsecurity.com/2012/01/citadel-trojan-touts-trouble-ticket-system/)
is a variant appeared in January 2012 that supports grabbing on Google
Chrome Browser.

[GameOver](http://threatpost.com/en_us/blogs/new-zeus-variant-means-gameover-unsuspecting-users-010912)
variant starts a DDoS Attack against the target bank at the same time it
commits fraud operation to distract bank's attention.

ZeuS P2P References:

  - [ZeuS Gets More Sophisticated Using P2P
    Techniques](http://www.abuse.ch/?p=3499)
  - [ZeuS – P2P+DGA variant – mapping out and understanding the
    threat](http://www.cert.pl/news/4711/langswitch_lang/en)

Other References:

  - [ZeuS Tracker](https://zeustracker.abuse.ch/)
  - [Ice IX – Or Just ZeuS?](http://www.abuse.ch/?p=3453)
  - [JaZeus: when Zeus meets Java](http://www.inreverse.net/?p=1551)
  - [Zeus Malware Analysis by
    SophosLabs](http://www.coresec.org/2011/05/21/zeus-malware-analysis-by-sophoslabs/)
  - [ZeuS Banking Trojan
    Report](http://www.secureworks.com/research/threats/zeus/)
  - [Abstract Memory Analysis: Zeus Encryption
    Keys](http://mnin.blogspot.com/2011/09/abstract-memory-analysis-zeus.html)
  - [Zeus: King of the
    bots](http://www.symantec.com/content/en/us/enterprise/media/security_response/whitepapers/zeus_king_of_bots.pdf)
  - [Web Injections
    Zeus/Spyeye](http://secniche.blogspot.fr/2011/07/spyeye-zeus-web-injects-parameters-and.html)

Tracking ZeuS:

  - [ZeuS Tracker](https://zeustracker.abuse.ch/)

#### Zeus Mitmo

ZeuS Mitmo (Man in the Mobile) is smartphone version of Zeus. Zeus Mitmo
combines SMS and the Web attack vector to attack online banks via
smartphone. Many banks are using SMS as second authentication. ZeuS
Mitmo is designed to steal mTANs, and computers infected with a ZeuS
Mitmo trojan will inject a "security notification" into the Web banking
process, attempting to lure the user into providing their phone number.
If a phone number is provided, the user will receive an SMS link
pointing to the mobile component, ZeusMitmo.

  - [Financial malware attacks on smartphones, European Network and
    information security
    agency](http://www.enisa.europa.eu/act/application-security/smartphone-security-1/top-ten-risks/financial-malware-attacks)
  - [S21Sec report on Zeus
    Mitmo](http://securityblog.s21sec.com/2010/09/zeus-mitmo-man-in-mobile-iii.html)
  - [zitmo: two factor authentication
    defeated](http://blog.fortinet.com/zeus-in-the-mobile-zitmo-online-bankings-two-factor-authentication-defeated/)

### Carberp

After ZeuS and SpyEye the third advanced Malware Banking Trojan is
**Carberp**, that during its evolution reached a great level of
complexity, by mixing good bypassing and stealth countermeasures with
ability to steal via Browser Code Injection online Banking Credentials.

Synthesis of Carberp Functionalities
[1](http://www.trustdefender.com/trustdefender-labs-blog-carberp-a-new-trojan-in-the-making.html):

  - **Ability to run as non-administrator**
  - **Ability to infect Windows XP , Windows Vista and Windows 7**
  - **Will not make any changes to the registry (only in memory
    modifications)**
  - **Browser Hooking**
  - **Stolen data is transmitted in real-time to C\&C server**
  - **Kill AntiVirus Software**
  - **Screenshot Ability**
  - **Form Grabber**
  - **Backconnect**

Carberp makes use of encrypted Configuration Files that contains plugins
and web injection code

  - **miniav.psd** - Kill Competitors Botnets (SpyEye. ZeuS)
  - **vnc.psd** - Remote VNC Session Capability
  - **passw.psd** - password grabber for FTP, VNC, E-Mail Clients,
    Stored Browser Passwords

References:

  - www.malwareint.com/docs/inside-carberp-botnet-en.pdf
  - [Carberp + BlackHole growing fraud
    incidents](http://blog.eset.com/2011/12/04/carberp-blackhole-growing-fraud-incidents)
  - [Bootkit Evolution of Win32Carberp: going
    deeper](http://blog.eset.com/2011/11/21/evolution-of-win32carberp-going-deeper)
  - [Decrypting Carberp C\&C
    communication](http://securityblog.s21sec.com/2011/07/decrypting-carberp-c-communication.html)
  - [Facebook New Trends in Carberp
    Activity](http://blog.eset.com/2012/01/26/facebook-fakebook-new-trends-in-carberp-activity)

### Clampi

Clampi (also known as Ligats, Ilomo or Rscan) is a Trojan designed to
steal credentials from infected systems. Its main purpose is to steal
online banking credentials to conduct the unauthorized transfer of funds
from hacked accounts to groups likely in Eastern Europe or Russia.

It has seven modules:

  - **SOCKS—A socks proxy.**
  - **PROT—Steals PSTORE credentials, which typically contains
    credentials saved when using a Web browser.**
  - **LOGGER—Steals online credentials.**
  - **LOGGEREXT—Aids in stealing online credentials for Web sites with
    enhanced security.**
  - **SPREAD—Spreads Clampi to machines in the network with open network
    shares.**
  - **ACCOUNTS—Steals locally saved credentials for a variety of
    applications such as Instant Messaging and FTP clients.**
  - **INFO—Gathers and sends general system information.**

References:

  - <http://www.symantec.com/content/en/us/enterprise/media/security_response/whitepapers/inside_trojan_clampi.pdf>
  - <http://www.symantec.com/connect/blogs/inside-jaws-trojanclampi>
  - <http://mnin.blogspot.fr/2008/11/locating-hidden-clampi-dlls-vad-style.html>
  - <http://www.secureworks.com/research/threats/clampi-trojan/>

### Tatanga

Tatanga appeared in the first half of 2011 as MiTB based trojan designed
to steal Online Banking Credentials and spoof (Post Transaction Attack)
the real balance of the victim.

Like previously seen trojans, also Tatanga makes use of Encrypted
Configuration Files (3-DES) to store plugins and web injection code.

Additionally Tatanga is able to:

  - **Grab E-Mail addresses**
  - **Remove Competitors Botnets**
  - **File Infector to increase malware spread**
  - **Kill Antivirus Software**

References:

  - [2011 Tatanga: a new banking trojan with MitB
    functions](http://securityblog.s21sec.com/2011/02/tatanga-new-banking-trojan-with-mitb.html)
  - [More on the Tatanga Banking
    Trojan](http://blog.trendmicro.com/more-on-the-tatanga-banking-trojan/)

### Urlzone

Urlzone is a Banking Trojan appeared in 2009, its main feature is the
ability to hide the evidence of the fraud by changing on fly the balance
showed to the Victim.

To accomplish money stealing Urlzone uses a classical MiTB Approach, it
works on the following browsers

  - **FireFox**
  - **Internet Explorer 6,7,8**
  - **Opera**

References:

  - [Finjan CyberIntel Report
    September 2009](http://www.wired.com/images_blogs/threatlevel/2009/09/finjan-cyberintel_sept_2009-sf.pdf)
  - [Banking Trojan steals money from under your
    nose](http://news.cnet.com/8301-27080_3-10363836-245.html)
  - [The case of the fake money-mules: Inside the URLZone Trojan
    network](http://www.zdnet.com/blog/security/the-case-of-the-fake-money-mules-inside-the-urlzone-trojan-network/4527)
  - [RSA banking Trojan research underscores problem tracking
    cybercriminals](http://blogs.rsa.com/rsafarl/the-arms-race-between-black-hats-and-white-hats-steps-up-with-urlzone-trojan/)

### Gozi

Banking trojan Gozi appeared for the first time in 2007 and was
characterized by a Low Detection Rate and ability to Steal from SSL
Encrypted Sessions.

Features List:

  - **Steals SSL Data**
  - **Steals Static Information from Banking Website**
  - **Steals Dynamic Password Schemes like Two Factor Authentication and
    OTP**
  - **KeyLogging Capabilities**
  - **SSL Encrypted Communication with the C\&C Server**
  - **AntiVirus Bypassing Capabilities**

SSL Stealing Technique is described here [Gozi Trojan Steals SSL
Encrypted Data for Fun and
Profit](http://isc.sans.edu/diary.html?storyid=2498)

References:

  - [Gozi Technical
    Analysis](http://www.secureworks.com/research/threats/gozi/)
  - [Gozi Trojan - King of Evasion Continues to Avoid Sophisticated
    Detection](http://www.prweb.com/releases/2010/11/prweb4745544.htm)

### Shylock

Shylock is a new Financial Malware, publicly reported for the first time
on 7 September 2011. Main ability of this malware is to inject itself
inside explorer's code. Also it incorporates watchdog that prevents
removing and rootkit functionality to hide itself.

Features List:

  - **Gathering system information on compromised system and sends it to
    dropzone**
  - **Downloading configuration that will be used from defined domain**
  - **Injects malicious code into browser's code**
  - **Hides using rootkit functionality**
  - **Intercepts network traffic and attempts to add malicious code to
    network trafic**

References:

  - [Shylock Technical
    Analysis](http://quequero.org/Shylock_via_volatility)
  - [Symantec report on
    Shylock](http://www.symantec.com/security_response/writeup.jsp?docid=2011-092916-1617-99&tabid=2)

### Sunspot

Sunspot appeared for the first time in late 2011 as MiTB based trojan
designed to steal Online Banking Credentials.

Features:

  - **Browser Code Injection**
  - **KeyStroke Logger**
  - **Screenshotting Capabilities**
  - **Steals Sensitive Personal Information necessary to carry out User
    Impersonation Attacks**
  - **Good AntiVirus Bypassing Capabilities**

Sunspot works on 32bit and 64bit Systems from Windows XP to Windows 7.

References:

  - [Sunspot Banking
    Trojan](http://www.theregister.co.uk/2011/05/11/sunspot_banking_trojan/)
  - [Windows Malware Morphs into Financial Fraud
    Platform](http://www.trusteer.com/blog/windows-malware-morphs-financial-fraud-platform)

### Oddjob

Oddjob Financial Trojan has been publicly reported for the first time 22
February 2011, the peculiar characteristic of Oddjob is the ability to
keep open Victim's Session even after they Logout, this implies that
Criminals will be able to steal money by Impersonating the Victim by
tapping the Session ID.

Oddjob works by injecting malicious code into Internet Explorer and
Firefox browsers, the code is contained in custom configuration files.

Will follow a quick summary of the Trojan Functionalities:

  - **Intercepts GET and POST requests**
  - **HTML Code Injection via MiTB Approach**
  - **Session Hijacking**

Session hijacking is performed by changing Logout functionality via
malicious html/js injected code, victim will inadvertently keep session
open and fraudsters will commit the money transaction.

References:

  - [New Financial Trojan Keeps Online Banking Sessions Open after Users
    “Logout”](http://www.trusteer.com/blog/new-financial-trojan-keeps-online-banking-sessions-open-after-users-%E2%80%9Clogout%E2%80%9D)

### Ramnit

Ramnit is a prolific malware that show a wide range of morphings during
its arc of existence, between these variations there is also the
Financial Stealing one.

Ramnit is essentially a Backdoor Trojan with the ability to perform also
MiTB Attacks.

List of Features:

  - **MiTB Capabilities**
  - **Backdoor Capabilities**
  - **File Infector Office Files, Windows Executables**
  - **SSL Secured C\&C Communication**
  - **AntiVirus bypassing Capabilities**
  - **Cookie Grabber**

References:

  - [Win32/Ramnit.A](http://www.microsoft.com/security/portal/threat/Encyclopedia/Entry.aspx?Name=Virus%3AWin32%2FRamnit.A)
  - [Ramnit Evolution – From Worm to Financial
    Malware](http://www.trusteer.com/blog/ramnit-evolution-%E2%80%93-worm-financial-malware)

### Cridex

Trojan Cridex became a well spreaded threat for Home Banking activities
in the first period of 2012. The malware is usually delivered via
malicious e-mails that contains shortened links to BlackHole Exploit Kit
websites.

Here a quick summary of Cridex's features

  - **Download and Execute Files**
  - **Upload and Search Files**
  - **Steal local Certificates**
  - **Configuration driven MiTB Capabilities that targets Banking
    Users**

Man in The Browser performed by Cridex targets the following browsers:

  - **Firefox**
  - **Internet Explorer**

The malware communicates with C\&C Servers via SSL in order to upload
stolen credentials and receive commands or configuration updates. Cridex
also has a modular structure, this mean that C\&C Server could upload
additional functionalities to the running bots.

One of the most interesting components is the Spamming/Propagation
module, that's able to create new email accounts that will be used to
spread Cridex itself.

Creating new e-mail accounts now implies also the necessity to solve
CAPTCHAs, and one of the most interesting features of Cridex is the
ability to integrate itself with a CAPTCHA Breaking Server.

References:

  - [Trojan caught on camera shows CAPTCHA is still a security
    issue](http://community.websense.com/blogs/securitylabs/archive/2012/01/30/trojan-caught-on-camera-shows-captcha-is-still-a-security-issue.aspx)
  - [The Cridex Trojan Targets 137 Financial Organizations in One
    Go](http://labs.m86security.com/2012/03/the-cridex-trojan-targets-137-financial-organizations-in-one-go/)
  - [Cridex Analysis using
    Volatility](http://sempersecurus.blogspot.it/2012/08/cridex-analysis-using-volatility.html)

### Tinba

Tinba stands for TinyBanker, definition derives from the reduced
dimensions, approximately 20KB, of the binary. Tinba relies upon the
MiTB (Man in The Browser) attack and has important level of invisibility
to AntiVirus technology.

The malware injects itself in the following system processes:

  - explorer.exe
  - svchost.exe

After the injection, Tinba looks for the execution of processes related
to most widely used browser, such as InternetExplorer and Firefox. The
infrastructure Tinba is typical of a classical HTTP botnet. The binary
has a list of four malicious servers used to upload stolen credentials,
communication is encrypted with RC4 algorithm.

The configuration management system relies upin two files:

  - cfg.dat
  - web.dat

The syntax of the configuration is identical to the ZeuS one. It 's also
interesting to note that Tinba can modify the HTTP response header
X-FrameOptions in order to introduce elements dangerous such as external
links Supported by HTTPS.

  - [Say hello to Tinba: World’s smallest
    trojan-banker](http://www.csis.dk/en/csis/news/3566/)
  - [Tiny New Tinba Banker Trojan Found Stealing Financial
    Data](http://threatpost.com/en_us/blogs/tiny-new-tinba-banker-trojan-found-stealing-financial-data-053112)
  - [Small banking Trojan poses major
    risk](http://www.theregister.co.uk/2012/06/04/small_banking_trojan/)

### Gataka

Gataka is a banking trojan with an architecture similar to SpyEye
emerged in the first part of July 2012. The binary file is equipped with
an encrypted configuration file which contains the HTML/JS code to be
injected in the target bank, additionally the configuration contains a
modular plugin-based system that implements a wide range of malicious
features.

The trojan injects itself into the system process Explorer.exe and then
activates the persistence on the system by inserting adding a registry
key entry.

From an architectural point of view, like SpyEye, plugins are downloaded
from the C\&C server and are inivocally identified by an ID. Follows a
summary of identified plugin (information is taken from ESET article -
check references for additional details):

  - **HermesCore**: This plugin is automatically included in all
    versions of Gataka and has a fundamental function, it's responsible
    of communication activities. The addresses of the servers are
    encoded in Base64. HermesCore can finally run arbitrary executables
    sent by the botmaster.
  - **Interceptor**: As the name suggests, this plugin takes care of the
    interception of traffic network by hooking API connect()
    getpeername() closesocket(). The plugin acts essentially as proxy
    that monitors inbound/outbound traffic, and in case of encrypted
    communications (HTTPS) Interceptor is able to use a fake
    certificates to perform a MiTM attack. Interceptor is able to change
    at run-time the certificate control functions of several browser in
    such a way to make the entire process even more invisible to the
    victim.
  - **NextGenFixer**: This plugin acts as a URL filter able to perform
    certain functions when a specific address is typed by the user.
  - **WebInject**: This plugin takes care of injecting malicious HTML/JS
    code into the target page, as well able to make a video of the
    browsing session. WebInject uses NextGenFixer to determine the URL
    typed by the victim.
  - **HttpTrafficLogger**: Make a log of browsing the victim.
  - **SocksTunnel**: Implements a SOCKS server such a way to exploit the
    infected machine for anonymous browsing activities.
  - **TrafficGrabber**: Network traffic sniffer, with functionality of
    packet dumper.
  - **CoreDb**: Contains the configuration encrypted with 3DES
    algorithm.

References

  - [Win32/Gataka: a banking Trojan ready to take
    off?](http://blog.eset.com/2012/06/28/win32gataka-a-banking-trojan-ready-to-take-off)

## Appendix C: Server Side Security Solutions

## Appendix D: Client Side Security Solutions

## References