## Date of Meeting: February 7, 2008

### Items discussed:

  - Need agenda for all future meetings – items to discuss at each
    meeting should include, but not be limited to:

`    1. OWASP Financials`
`    2. Conference Report`
`    3. Infrastructure`
`    4. Local Chapters update`
`    5. Projects update`

  - Local Chapters

`    1. Need to define more clear rules (ie: need to meet at least quarterly, at least 3 people on board, info must be published, etc.)`
`    2. What is an ideal OWASP Chapter?`
`    3. Need to put a process in place for OWASP donating money to local chapters`

  - OWASP Financials

`    1. Need to focus on selling more advertising space for 2008`
`    2. Board needs to receive quarterly balance sheet reports`
`    3. Board needs to receive monthly report on new members, renewals, how much additional $ in memberships`

  - Advisory Board

`    1. Need to create an advisory board (who should participate?)`
`    2. Figure out how to handle meetings (Quarterly?)`

  - OWASP Projects

`    1. Need a clear list of what the steps are to have a project become an OWASP project`
`    2. Need to make the process easier for those who want to contribute`

### Actions Items:

  - Alison

`    1. Invite Larry to next meeting`
`    2. Create an agenda for the next meeting`
`    3. Send a quarterly balance sheet to the board`
`    4. Before each meeting, send a summary of all new members, renewals, how much additional $`
`    5. Send an email to all OWASP Corporate Members and Conference Sponsors seeing if they are interested in purchasing advertising space`

  - Jeff

`    1. Figure out best approach for getting together Advisory Board, organizing meetings, etc.`

  - Dave

`    1. Send Alison email that has been used in the past for selling advertising space`

  - Dinis

`    1. Work out details for 'Working Groups'`
`    2. Make the process easier for people who want to contribute to OWASP (through projects), and don't know how to`
`    3. Create more clear guidelines on what the steps are to make a project an OWASP project `
`    3. Assist Alison with the Newsletter`

  - Tom

`    1. Work with Dinis on 'Working Groups'`

  - Seba

`    1. Get more info on how we should handle giving money to local OWASP Chapters - coordinate with Alison`
`    2. Create more clear guidelines on criteria each local chapter must meet, to remain active`

  - Larry

`    1. Check out forum- are we using it?`