<font size=2pt>

All OWASP events will fall into one of the following categories. If you
are unsure as to what types of event you would like to plan [contact
us](https://owasporg.atlassian.net/servicedesk/customer/portal/7/group/18/create/72)
and for further clarification or to help define the scope of your event.
Please also note that various types of events have some requirements set
for them, see the {{\#switchtablink:POLICIES/REQUIREMENTS
|policies/requirements |How to Host a Conference}} tab for details

## **OWASP Global AppSec Conference**

These conferences are the flagship of the OWASP outreach effort. This
will be an international conference sponsored by OWASP and approved by
the OWASP Staff along with a small group of community event reviewers.
AppSec Conferences include multiple days of multi-track plenary sessions
in addition to pre-conference training offerings. AppSec Conferences,
schedules, and trainings must be reviewed by the OWASP Staff and will
receive the full support of the OWASP Foundation. In any calendar year,
there will be no more than 4 AppSec Conferences of this size. Locations
will be determined the prior year and planning must begin at a minimum
of 12 months in advance. The talent and services of volunteers are
crucial to OWASP AppSec Conference success. That is the reason why it is
important to establish standards and guidelines for volunteer so that
both the volunteer and OWASP staff understand the parameters of the
relationship up front. Volunteers that cancel at the last minute and
produce limited results encumber OWASP mission, costing it money and
preventing it from fulfilling its fundraising goals. A reliable
volunteer with a strong work ethic can go a long way towards helping
OWASP meet its goals. Before getting the approval to organize an OWASP
AppSec Conference the Conference Organizers should: First, make a
personal commitment to be there for OWASP. And second, read and fill out
and sign the volunteer agreement.

## **OWASP Regional/Theme Conference**

Regional/Theme conferences typically have lower attendance than AppSec
conferences and typically include multiple days of single track plenary
sessions. Training may or may not be offered at the discretion of the
regional conference planning team. Regional conferences are not subject
to the same rigor as AppSec conferences in terms of planning and only
require the local planning team enter the event into the OWASP
Conference Management System for review and approval by OWASP Staff and
a small group of community reviewers. Regional conferences are
encouraged to have a unique theme (development, Research, PHP,
Government, Browsers...) to help differentiate them, although this is
not required. Regional teams are free to brand their conference as they
wish, as long as the OWASP affiliation is maintained, with the exception
of the moniker "OWASP Global AppSec" which is reserved only for Global
AppSec conferences.

## **OWASP Local Event**

Events are typically single day or "OWASP Day" type events that are
generally local in nature. Events typically have only one track and span
anywhere from a half to a full day. Planning for these events is at the
sole discretion of the event team and may be branded in any manner so
long as the OWASP affiliation is maintained. In general, significant
OWASP Foundation support will not be available for these events.

## **Project Summit**

The purpose of our Project Summits is to focus dedicated time on
collaboration & innovation of specific technical topics to help improve
the quality and usefulness of our OWASP project tools. A Project Summit
may be a standalone event or co-located with our Global AppSec
conferences. Project Summits are classified as local or regional events
and are eligible for the same level of support.

## **Partner/Promotional/Co-Marketing Events**

Partner events are events of any type where OWASP partners with another
non-profit organization to co-host an event. These events sometimes
require close examination as the terms of the partnering agreement need
to be reviewed to ensure OWASP integrity and reduce liability. These
events also frequently will require both OWASP Staff and community
review and may take many forms.

Many of our partnership & co-marketing agreements have the same standard
deliverables, which may include but are not limited to:
\* Include the event under our [Partner &
Promotional](https://www.owasp.org/index.php/Category:OWASP_AppSec_Conference)
section
\* Include the event in our monthly Connector up until the conclusion of
the event
\* One (1) dedicated email invitation to the chapter leaders within the
region of the event, asking them share the details and discounts with
their community and chapter members. Email to be provided to OWASP for
review/release by the partnering organization. Each chapter is run
independently, so it is up to each chapter leaders discretion to promote
the event.
\* Logo posted on our [Supporting
Partners](https://www.owasp.org/index.php/Supporting_Partners) page
\* Social Media - usually no more than 1x a month up until the start of
the event.

Promotional Events are where OWASP has paid or in-kind sponsorship in a
conference that is hosted by another organization. This sponsorship may
take the shape of a booth, hosted competition, lanyards, bags, fliers
and other promotional items and may or may not be a strictly financial
transaction. These events require additional scrutiny as OWASP has a
very limited marketing budget, however it is important for community
members to have the support to "get the word out" at other events. These
events will often provide OWASP with conference passes that can be
distributed to volunteers who agree to represent OWASP at the OWASP
booth.