OWASP Israel Feb 2013 meeting was held on the 12/2/2013 Tuesday at the
E\&Y training center located in Meitav 6 st. Tel Aviv (see map below).

The meeting’s agenda was:

**17:00 – 17:30 Gathering, Pizza & soft drinks.**

**17:30 – 17:45 Opening note.**

**17:45 – 18:30 An introduction to pythonect for security professionals
- Itzik Kotler** ([download
presentation](Media:OWASP_IL_2013_02_Itzik_Kotler_Pythonect_for_SP.pdf "wikilink"))

Abstract: Pythonect is a new, free and open source dataflow programming
language. It is an attempt to fuse the intuitive feel of shell scripting
(and all of its perks like implicit parallelism) with the flexibility
and agility of Python. Pythonect is perfect for rapidly prototyping and
testing everything from reverse engineering tools to fuzzers and
penetration testing scripts. This talk will introduce Pythonect, the
automation gap it fills, and its features. Example scripts are included
to showcase concepts and ideas

**18:30 – 19:15 Web crime DOES pay - unless you get caught\!\! - Renana
Friedlich** ([download
presentation](Media:OWASP_IL_2013_02_Renana_Friedlich_CrimeDoesPay.pdf "wikilink"))

Abstract: But let us say you DID get caught\!\! - What if the crime was
committed in Country A, the proxy is in Country B, and the target is in
Country C?

  - Where is the jurisdiction authority?
  - What are the indictment procedures?
  - By which laws should you be judged?

Can SQL injection put you in jail? Can XSS? And CSRF? What actually
constitutes a computer crime?

And let's not forget computer crime cooperation between countries:

  - What exists and what doesn't
  - What are your chances to be extradited?

Let's say you were indicted...

  - Did you know you can get up to life sentence for computer crime?
  - On the other hand... is it really so hard to get away clean?

This lecture will answer all these questions and will fill the gap
between web oriented attacks to computer crimes .

**19:15 – 19:30 coffee break.**

**19:30 – 20:15 WAFEC 2.0 panel - Moderator: Ofer Shezaf**

(The panel did not have a presentation, you can learn more about WAFEC
at [the WAFEC web site](http://wafec.webasppsec.org)\])

The WASC/OWASP WAFEC Project, first released in 2006, is the de-facto
standard for learning about and evaluating web application firewalls and
is commonly used in WAF RFPs. The project team, which includes every WAF
expert in the world (and if we missed you, you are welcomed to join), is
working hard to complete version 2. As part the OWASP IL mini conference
we will bring together some of the active participants in writing the
upcoming version, all world experts on WAFs, to discuss the state of WAF
technology, WAF industry and the challenges in creating an evaluation
guide for WAFs. This will be and interactive session and will be driven
by questions from me and from the audience. Feel free to pre-submit
questions\!

The WAFEC panel will include:

  - Amichai Shulman, CTO, Imperva
  - David Maman, CTO, GreenSQL
  - Ido Breger, Product Manager, Web Application Firewalls, F5
  - Nimrod Luria, CTO, Foresight
  - Ory Segal, Principal Product Architect, Cloud Security, Akamai
  - Shlomo Narkolayev, General Manager, Cyberdin

![map](OWASP_IL_EY_MAP.png "map")