*Sent to owasp-all mailing list on 19 Mar 2007* __NOEDITSECTION__

## OWASP Newsletter \#7 (19-Mar-2007)

Welcome to the 7th OWASP Newsletter, featuring the new OWASP Spring of
Code 2007, OWASP Chapter activities and introducing the new OWASP SWAAT
Project. As always this newsletter is stuffed with the latest OWASP
updates, blog entries and Web Application Security updates\!

If you want to follow the latest changes to the OWASP web site, you can
now point your favorite newsreader to the [OWASP recent changes
feed](http://www.owasp.org/index.php?title=Special:Recentchanges&feed=atom)
(atom feed).

If you have any content to add to the next edition, feel free to add it
directly to its WIKI page ([OWASP Newsletter
8](OWASP_Newsletter_8 "wikilink")).

Sebastien Deleersnyder

Belgium Chapter Leader

## Featured Item 1: [OWASP Spring Of Code 2007](OWASP_Spring_Of_Code_2007 "wikilink")

Following the success of last year's Autumn of Code (AoC 06) we are are
now launching the OWASP Spring of Code 2007 (SpoC 007) with more budget,
more energy and more expectations :)

Here are the main links for this initiative:

  - [OWASP Spring Of Code 2007](OWASP_Spring_Of_Code_2007 "wikilink") -
    main page
  - [OWASP Spring Of Code 2007 : Press
    Release](OWASP_Spring_Of_Code_2007_:_Press_Release "wikilink") - The
    press release
  - [OWASP Spring Of Code 2007 Project
    Ideas](OWASP_Spring_Of_Code_2007_Project_Ideas "wikilink") - If you
    are looking for projects to do
  - [OWASP Spring Of Code 2007
    Applications](OWASP_Spring_Of_Code_2007_Applications "wikilink") -
    Where to submit Applications
  - [OWASP Spring Of Code 2007 :
    Selection](OWASP_Spring_Of_Code_2007_:_Selection "wikilink") - The
    selection criteria and links to each selected project page

## Featured Item 2: [OWASP Chapters](:Category:OWASP_Chapter "wikilink")

Currently there are over 80 OWASP chapters world wide\! The OWASP
chapters program helps to foster local discussion of application
security around the world. Our local chapters are free and open to
anyone. Check out the [chapters
page](:Category:OWASP_Chapter "wikilink") to locate a chapter near you
or start a new chapter.

There are a lot of resources available for all chapters: The [Chapter
Rules](Chapter_Rules "wikilink"), the OWASP [Chapter Leader
Handbook](Chapter_Leader_Handbook "wikilink") and if you are short of
local chapter material, we have started to make available presentations
in the monthly [Chapter Presentation
Bundles](Chapter_Presentation_Bundles "wikilink").

An extra call for action towards the OWASP (chapter) leaders: If you are
in other countries/cities and you would like to participate in a local
chapter meeting, do not hesitate to contact the local chapter leader\!

Also have a look at the great [Phoenix/Tools](Phoenix/Tools "wikilink")
page, created by the [Phoenix](Phoenix "wikilink") chapter.

## Featured Item 3: WASC Threat Classification Project - Call for Participants

The WASC Threat Classification Project is seeking people to contribute
towards The Threat Classification Version 2.0. Time has passed since the
initial TC release, and it's important to keep this widely utilized
document up to date.

Project Homepage: <http://www.webappsec.org/projects/threat/>

Interested participants can contact 'contact_@_webappsec.org' with any
questions.

## Featured Project: [OWASP SWAAT Project](:Category:OWASP_SWAAT_Project "wikilink")

SWAAT is a free web application source code analysis tool. SWAAT
searches through source code and analyzes against the database of
potentially dangerous strings given in the .xml files. Thus it does NOT
positively identify the existence of a vulnerability - this generally
requires application contextual knowledge. It identifies the usage of
functions / strings / SQL that could lead to a finding. All potentially
dangerous code references are included in the output report.

Future releases of SWAAT will include:

  - a graphical user interface (GUI)
  - integrated development environment (IDE) plug-ins
  - more sophisticated functionality and logic (for example to work with
    .java source)

SWAAT was generously donated by [Security
Compass](http://www.securitycompass.com)

## Featured Event: Application Security Track at Spring
Conference 2007 (Athens, OH Mar-22)

Harden web applications against the OWASP "Top 10 Threats"\! The
Spring
Conference 2007 is held on Thursday, March 22, 2007 on the campus of
Ohio University in Athens, Ohio. They have a dedicated Application
Security track and more in this day long event that has been described
as, "one of the best kept secrets in Information Technology\!".

At this event, the fifth annual, Joel Stanley of Resource Interactive,
in Columbus, OH, will share his experiences in maintaining applications
with user bases as large as 15+ million. He'll explore how to utilize
standards by which application security and vulnerability can be judged.
Join hundreds of your IT professional peers in this and your choices of
thirty-four other sessions in seven tracks at this day long event that
costs only $35 (including your lunch\!). Ben Forta, Chief Product
Evangelist of Adobe Systems will be giving the Key Note presentation,
plus Ben will be back to give a presentation at the Lunchtime Session as
well. Visit <http://www.sbconference.com> for all the details and to
register online\!

## Latest additions to the WIKI

#### New Pages

  - [‎OWASP Spring Of Code 2007](‎OWASP_Spring_Of_Code_2007 "wikilink")
  - [Kansas City March 2007
    Meeting](Kansas_City_March_2007_Meeting "wikilink")
  - [Authorization form](Authorization_form "wikilink")
  - [Session Fixation in Java](Session_Fixation_in_Java "wikilink")

#### New Documents & Presentations from chapters

  - [Advanced Injection
    Attacks](Media:KC_Mar2007_Advanced_Injection_Attacks.zip "wikilink")
    from the [Kansas City](Kansas_City "wikilink") chapter meeting (ppt
    within a zip)
  - [Adobe Flash
    Security](Media:KC_Mar2007_Flash_Security.pdf "wikilink") from the
    [Kansas City](Kansas_City "wikilink") chapter meeting (pdf)
  - Luca Carettoni has published an interview to OWASP-Italy (OWASP
    interviews OWASP :) )
    [Here](http://blog.html.it/archivi/2007/02/26/quattro-chiacchiere-con-owasp-italia.php)
    the full article (in Italian).
  - ![Web Services Hacking and
    Hardening](Web_Services_Hacking_and_Hardening.pdf
    "Web Services Hacking and Hardening") 3/8/07 NoVA chapter meeting,
    Adam Vincent from Layer7

For a complete list of chapter presentations see [the online table of
presentations](OWASP_Education_Presentation "wikilink").

#### Latest Blog entries

  - [Quick updates
    (Orizon)](http://blogs.owasp.org/orizon/2007/03/14/quick-updates/)
  - [OWASP Phoenix chapter meeting
    presentation](http://blogs.owasp.org/dre/2007/03/09/owasp-phoenix-chapter-meeting-presentation/)
  - [DNS
    Pinning](http://blogs.owasp.org/diniscruz/2007/03/09/dns-pinning/)

#### Updated pages

Updated chapter pages:

  - [Philadelphia](Philadelphia "wikilink")
  - [London](London "wikilink")
  - [Phoenix](Phoenix "wikilink")
  - [Kansas City March 2007
    Meeting](Kansas_City_March_2007_Meeting "wikilink")
  - [Kansas City](Kansas_City "wikilink")
  - [New Jersey](New_Jersey "wikilink")
  - [Italy](Italy "wikilink")
  - [Austin](Austin "wikilink")
  - [SanDiego](SanDiego "wikilink")(new\!)
  - [Toronto](Toronto "wikilink")
  - [Helsinki](Helsinki "wikilink")
  - [Long Island](Long_Island "wikilink")
  - [Switzerland](Switzerland "wikilink")

Other pages:

  - [Appendix A: Testing Tools](Appendix_A:_Testing_Tools "wikilink")
  - [Testing for SQL
    Server](Testing_for_SQL_Server_\(OWASP-DV-008\) "wikilink")
  - [Ajax and Other "Rich" Interface
    Technologies](Ajax_and_Other_"Rich"_Interface_Technologies "wikilink")
  - [Testing for business logic
    (OWASP-BL-001)](Testing_for_business_logic_\(OWASP-BL-001\) "wikilink")
  - [:Category:OWASP SWAAT
    Project](:Category:OWASP_SWAAT_Project "wikilink")
  - [Preventing SQL Injection in
    Java](Preventing_SQL_Injection_in_Java "wikilink")
  - [:Category:OWASP WebGoat
    Project](:Category:OWASP_WebGoat_Project "wikilink")
  - [6th OWASP AppSec Conference - Italy
    2007](6th_OWASP_AppSec_Conference_-_Italy_2007 "wikilink")
  - [OWASP Java Table of
    Contents](OWASP_Java_Table_of_Contents "wikilink")
  - [Signing jar files with
    jarsigner](Signing_jar_files_with_jarsigner "wikilink")
  - [Testing for HTTP Methods and
    XST](Testing_for_HTTP_Methods_and_XST_\(OWASP-CM-008\) "wikilink")
  - [:Category talk:Code
    Snippet](:Category_talk:Code_Snippet "wikilink")
  - [OWASP Autumn of Code 2006 - Project
    Completion](OWASP_Autumn_of_Code_2006_-_Project_Completion "wikilink")
  - [OWASP Education
    Presentation](OWASP_Education_Presentation "wikilink")
  - [:Category:OWASP Education
    Project](:Category:OWASP_Education_Project "wikilink")
  - [How to value the real risk](How_to_value_the_real_risk "wikilink")
  - [OWASP Education
    Presentation](OWASP_Education_Presentation "wikilink")
  - [Category talk:OWASP XML Security Gateway Evaluation Criteria
    Project](Category_talk:OWASP_XML_Security_Gateway_Evaluation_Criteria_Project "wikilink")
  - [WebGoat User Guide
    Introduction](WebGoat_User_Guide_Introduction "wikilink")
  - [OWASP SiteGenerator](OWASP_SiteGenerator "wikilink")
  - [Chaining WebScarab onto another
    proxy](Chaining_WebScarab_onto_another_proxy "wikilink")
  - [Edcuation Track: Web Application Security
    Primer](Edcuation_Track:_Web_Application_Security_Primer "wikilink")
  - [OWASP Education
    Presentation](OWASP_Education_Presentation "wikilink")
  - [DN BOFinder](DN_BOFinder "wikilink")
  - [OWASP Newsletter 8](OWASP_Newsletter_8 "wikilink")
  - [OWASP Community](OWASP_Community "wikilink")
  - [Java server (J2EE) code
    review](Java_server_\(J2EE\)_code_review "wikilink")
  - [OWASP Code Review Guide Table of
    Contents](OWASP_Code_Review_Guide_Table_of_Contents "wikilink")
  - [Application Security News](Application_Security_News "wikilink")
  - [Webgoat‎](Webgoat‎ "wikilink")
  - [CSRF Guard](CSRF_Guard "wikilink")
  - [Testing for SQL
    Server](Testing_for_SQL_Server_\(OWASP-DV-008\) "wikilink")
  - [Ajax and Other "Rich" Interface
    Technologies](Ajax_and_Other_"Rich"_Interface_Technologies "wikilink")
  - [Testing for business logic
    (OWASP-BL-001)](Testing_for_business_logic_\(OWASP-BL-001\) "wikilink")
  - [:Category:Encoding](:Category:Encoding "wikilink")

#### Latest Application Security News

  - **Mar 15 - [local IE 7 phishing
    hole](http://aviv.raffon.net/2007/03/14/PhishingUsingIE7LocalResourceVulnerability.aspx)**

<!-- end list -->

  -
    Provides a nice proof of concept with CNN (Link at the bottom).
    "Internet Explorer 7.0 is vulnerable to cross-site scripting in one
    of its local resources. In combination with a design flaw in this
    specific local resource it is possible for an attacker to easily
    conduct phishing attacks against IE7 users." CNET News also picked
    this up as a
    [story](http://news.com.com/2100-1002_3-6167410.html?part=rss&tag=2547-1_3-0-20&subj=news).

<!-- end list -->

  - **Mar 14 - [GMail Information
    Disclosure](http://mybeni.rootzilla.de/mybeNi/2007/gmail_information_disclosure/)**

<!-- end list -->

  -
    Only a tiny XSS hole to demonstrate a disclosure proof-of-concept
    through AJAX/JSON of all contacts you ever mailed. If a domains
    covers a lot of functionality and users, one XSS can be devastating.
    Remember the Google Desktop vulnerability. What is frightening is
    that it took Beni only \~5 minutes to find a XSS hole.

<!-- end list -->

  - **Mar 8 - [Anurag Agarwal's reflection
    series](http://myappsecurity.blogspot.com/search/label/reflection)**

<!-- end list -->

  -
    Anurag Agarwal maintains an interesting
    [blog](http://myappsecurity.blogspot.com/) on Web Application
    Security. Recently he started a serie of reflections on people
    active in this field. Up until now he covered Amit Klein, RSnake,
    Jeremiah Grossman, Ivan Ristic and Sheeraj Shah. Lot's of good
    pointers to web application research of the last years\!

#### OWASP Community

  - Apr 17 (18:00h) - [Rochester chapter meeting](Rochester "wikilink")
  - Apr 12 (18:00h) - [Netherlands chapter
    meeting](Netherlands "wikilink")
  - Apr 11 (18:00h) - [Toronto chapter meeting](Toronto "wikilink")
  - Apr 10 (18:00h) - [Washington DC (N. VA) chapter
    meeting](Virginia_\(Northern_Virginia\) "wikilink")
  - Apr 4 (18:30h) - [Boston chapter meeting](Boston "wikilink")
  - Apr 3 (18:00h) - [Melbourne chapter meeting](Melbourne "wikilink")
  - Mar 28 (11:30h) - [San Antonio chapter
    meeting](San_Antonio "wikilink")
  - Mar 22 (18:00h) - [London chapter meeting](London "wikilink")
  - Mar 21-22 -
    [Belgium@InfoSecurity](Belgium#OWASP_Top_10_2007_Update_.28Infosecurity_Belgium.2C_21_.26_.2622_Mar_2007.29 "wikilink")
  - Mar 20 (18:00h) - [Rochester chapter meeting](Rochester "wikilink")
  - Mar 14 (18:00h) - [Toronto chapter meeting](Toronto "wikilink")
  - Mar 14 (18:00h) - [Chicago chapter meeting](Chicago "wikilink")
  - Mar 13 (18:00h) - [Washington DC (N. VA) chapter
    meeting](Virginia_\(Northern_Virginia\) "wikilink")

## OWASP references in the Media

  - [SPI Dynamics, Inc. Joins OWASP as Vendor Organization
    Member](http://www.net-security.org/secworld.php?id=4882)