## Testing the Tester – Measuring Quality of Security Testing

Discuss, using live examples and case studies the aspect of quality in
security testing. What is a good pentest vs a bad pentest. How to
determine whether a project you had was good or not. How to predetermine
that the person you will be getting to do your project is working in the
right way. Dealing with false negatives and false positives of such
tests. Philosophical aspects such as methodology, exploitation, test
plans, checklists, costs vs quality (and the most important aspect of
cost effectiveness) etc. Approaches issues (pros and cons for each
aspect) – black box vs white box, tools vs manual, remote vs local, etc.

## Bio

Ofer Maor has over twelve years of experience in the Information
Technology field, ten of which in information security and application
security. Mr. Maor is a pioneer of the application security field, as he
is involved in the leading research initiatives in the field, has
published numerous papers, appears regularly in leading conferences and
is all in all considered a leading authority in this field by all those
involved in it.

Before founding Hacktics, Mr. Maor led Imperva™'s Application Defense
Center, a research group focused on providing application security
services and education. In this capacity, he advanced research
activities and was responsible for all the application security services
conducted by the company. He was previously a Senior Security Consultant
at eDvice, an application security consulting firm. He has also served
for three years as an Information Security Officer in the Israeli
Defense Forces.