The meeting was held on May 7th 2009 and was hosted by IBM in Park
Azorim in Petach-Tikva

([Hebrew Version](http://www.xiom.com/owasp-meeting-7-5-2009))

## Web-Based Man-in-the-Middle Attack

Adi Sharabani, IBM

We've all known for a long time that using a public wireless network is
risky. We all think twice before logging into our bank account or
accessing any kind of sensitive information. But what about simply
reading the news on our favorite news site? In this presentation, we
will show how using a public network can expose you to practically any
web-related client-side security issue on any domain, no matter how
careful you think you're being. These issues range from XSS on any
domain, through CSRF, to leaking of browser data and more.

We will show how the currently known best practices, which are supposed
to keep you from harm when reading a blog in the neighborhood coffee
shop, may be overcome. We'll demonstrate how such best practices, like
those listed in
<http://www.microsoft.com/protect/yourself/mobile/publicwireless.mspx>,
are only useful against what we call "passive" attacks, which are
passively gathering data from the network. We will introduce a new type
of attack coined "Active attacks", and see how they easily work around a
careful user's attempt to browse responsibly in a public network. We
will demonstrate how these attacks can steal information from past
browsing activities. and how they can monitor your future browsing,
inside the safety of your home and your organization's networks.

Further Information: [Presentation](http://blog.watchfire.com/AMitM.ppt)
| [White Paper](http://blog.watchfire.com/AMitM.pdf) |
[Blog](http://blog.watchfire.com/wfblog/2009/02/active-man-in-the-middle-attacks.html)

## Automation Attacks and Counter Measures

Ofer Shezaf, [Xiom](http://www.xiom.com)

Abuse of web applications using automated program is becoming a major
threat to web sites. Some attacks such as brute force and denial of
service are clearly illegal, while others fall in the grey area of the
law but harm the business of the web site owner. Example of grey area
automation attacks are robots that play online gambling or automatic
participation in online tenders.

The presentation will show several interesting automation incident and
discuss the cat and mouse game between attackers and site owners in
which the later are creating new defenses while the former are making
the attacks more sophisticated. Lastly we will present novel ideas as to
how to make sites mitigate automation attacks better.

Further Information:
[Presentation](http://www.owasp.org/images/5/58/OWASP_Israel_-_May_2009_-_Ofer_Shezaf_-_Automation_Attacks.pdf)

[Category:Israel](Category:Israel "wikilink")