## Overview

The most overlooked module in web applications is the input validation
mechanism. Unfortunately, most developers are either unaware of the
consequences or simply find developing input validation mechanisms “too
hard”. Ever hear of a bank reporting that they've have several thousand
credit card numbers stolen? Ever hear of the 'MySpace' worm? These
issues would not exist had application developers implemented input
validation correctly. Therefore, it is the goal of this document to
provide a clear and detailed set of principals that should be
incorporated in the development of an application specific input
validation mechanism.

## Downloads

The OWASP Validation Documentation in word document form can be found
[here](http://www.owasp.org/index.php/Image:OWASP_Validation_Documentation.doc).

The online version of the OWASP Validation Documentation can be found
[here](http://www.owasp.org/index.php/OWASP_Validation_Documentation)

## News

**`Online``   ``Version``   ``Released``   ``-``   ``16:16,``   ``12``
 ``September``   ``2006``   ``(EDT)`**

In an attempt to fully open the validation documentation to the OWASP
community, the paper will now be maintained via Mediawiki. The online
version of the validation documentation can be found
[here](http://www.owasp.org/index.php/OWASP_Validation_Documentation).
We encourage contributions and edits. We will periodically build word
document version of the validation documentation when appropriate.

**`New``   ``version``   ``of``   ``the``   ``OWASP``   ``Validation``
 ``Documentation``   ``Posted``   ``-``   ``10:48,``   ``14``
 ``August``   ``2006``   ``(EDT)`**

The most notable difference is that this version is in the Microsoft
Word file format. Second, this version addresses a few obvious
grammatical errors as well as the overuse of the phrase 'consider the
case'. In the near future, the validation documentation will be posted
in Wiki format such that anyone can openly contribute.

**`OWASP``   ``Validation``   ``Documentation``   ``rough``   ``draft``
 ``released!``   ``-``   ``18:22,``   ``4``   ``August``   ``2006``
 ``(EDT)`**

The OWASP Validation Project is pleased to announce the immediate
availability of the OWASP Validation Documentation rough draft. The
documentation is the result of a tireless effort to provide clear design
goals when implementing input validation in web applications. The
following is the document abstract:

*Correctly implementing an input validation mechanism for a custom
application is extremely difficult. It is then inevitable that large web
applications will fall victim to this class of vulnerability. Therefore,
a developer should have a clear understanding of how to successfully
design and implement a reusable input validation mechanism for their
applications. The OWASP Validation Documentation attempts to fulfill
this requirement by providing the necessary design principals as well as
an example implementation. This document is structured such that if a
developer were to incorporate all of the presented design principals,
then the result will be a complete and reusable input validation
engine.*

## Feedback and Participation

We hope you find the Validation Documentation useful. Please contribute
back to the project by sending your comments, questions, and suggestions
to [Eric Sheridan](mailto:eric.sheridan@owasp.org)

## Project Sponsors

The OWASP Validation Documentation project is sponsored by
[<http://www.owasp.org/images/d/d1/Aspect_logo.gif>](http://www.aspectsecurity.com).

[Category:OWASP Validation
Project](Category:OWASP_Validation_Project "wikilink")