*Sent to owasp-all mailing list on 16th Jan 2007*

*' OWASP Newsletter \#2 – January 8th 2006 to January 15th 2006*'

Hello, here is another newsletter with tons of links and information
about what is happening at OWASP. If you want something to appear in the
next version, please add it to [OWASP Newsletter
3](OWASP_Newsletter_3 "wikilink")

Dinis Cruz Chief OWASP Evangelist London, UK

#### OWASP News

  - [ORG (OWASP Report
    Generator)](ORG_\(OWASP_Report_Generator\) "wikilink") - New release
    of
    \[<http://sourceforge.net/project/downloading.php?group_id=64424&use_mirror=osdn&filename=ORG_v0.88.msi>|
    ORG Installer\] (1/15/2007)

<!-- end list -->

  - [OWASP Live
    CD](http://www.owasp.org/index.php/OWASP_Autumn_of_Code_2006_-_Projects:_Live_CD)
    Beta Release - Download it from
    \[<http://www.packetfocus.com/hackos>|
    <http://www.packetfocus.com/hackos>\]

#### Featured Projects

  - [OWASP WebScarab NG Project](OWASP_WebScarab_NG_Project "wikilink")
    - Rogan has been very busy on the new version of WebScarab, which is
    not complete, but is already in a very usable state (I already
    prefer it to the current version). Rogan needs your help in testing
    this version and sending in your comments. Quote from [OWASP
    WebScarab NG Project](OWASP_WebScarab_NG_Project "wikilink"):
    *WebScarab-NG is a complete rewrite of the old WebScarab
    application, with a special focus on making the application more
    user-friendly. To this end, WebScarab-NG makes use of the Spring
    Rich Client Platform to provide the user interface features. By
    using the Spring Rich Client Platform, WebScarab-NG automatically
    gains things like default buttons, keyboard shortcuts, support for
    internationalisation, etc.*

<!-- end list -->

  - [:Category:OWASP Testing
    Project](:Category:OWASP_Testing_Project "wikilink") - As per my
    last email to you, we have started a review process for new version
    of the OWASP Testing Guide v2 (which you can you can read it on line
    [Testing Guide v2 wiki - 'Release
    Candidate 1'](http://www.owasp.org/index.php/OWASP_Testing_Guide_v2_Table_of_Contents)
    or view it in in [Adobe PDF
    format](http://www.owasp.org/index.php/Image:OWASP_Testing_Guide_v2_RC1_pdf.zip)
    or [Ms Doc
    format](http://www.owasp.org/index.php/Image:OWASP_Testing_Guide_v2_RC1_doc.zip)).
    If you want to participate in this review see the
    [OWASP_Testing_Project_v2.0_-_Review_Guidelines](OWASP_Testing_Project_v2.0_-_Review_Guidelines "wikilink")
    page.

<!-- end list -->

  - [:Category:OWASP CAL9000
    Project](:Category:OWASP_CAL9000_Project "wikilink") - This project
    is a great resource to (amongst other things) understand and exploit
    XSS. Quote: *CAL9000 is a collection of web application security
    testing tools that complement the feature set of current web proxies
    and automated scanners. CAL9000 gives you the flexibility and
    functionality you need for more effective manual testing efforts.
    Works best when used with Firefox or Internet Explorer.*

#### Featured Story: Two free Java EE filters for CSRF, Reflected XSS, and Adobe XSS

OWASP contributors from **[Aspect
Security](http://www.aspectsecurity.com)** have developed two new Java
EE filters to protect against common web attacks. Just add a few lines
to your web.xml file and enjoy the protection.

  - '''[CSRF and Reflected XSS Filter for Java
    EE](CSRF_Guard "wikilink")
    This filter adds a random token to forms and URLs that prevent an
    attacker from executing both [CSRF](CSRF "wikilink") and reflected
    [XSS](XSS "wikilink") attacks.

<!-- end list -->

  - '''[Adobe XSS Filter for Java
    EE](PDF_Attack_Filter_for_Java_EE "wikilink")
    This filter protects against the recent XSS attacks on PDF files. By
    using a redirect and an encrypted token, this filter ensures that
    dangerous attacks are not passed into the Adobe reader plugin.

#### Featured Story: "Automated Scanner vs. The OWASP Top Ten"

Apart from some shameless marketing plus and its [real intention with
this
paper](http://www.prnewswire.com/cgi-bin/stories.pl?ACCT=104&STORY=/www/story/01-09-2007/0004502553&EDATE=),
WhiteHat Security has published a good paper on the limitations of Web
Application Security Scanners capabilities to detect the
\[OWASP_Top_Ten_Project OWASP Top 10\] vulnerabilities (which btw,
all vendors claim they do). I actually think that the examples are quite
basic, but they are good enough for the argument presented.

You can download this paper from
[1](http://www.whitehatsec.com/home/assets/OWASPTop10ScannersF.pdf)

Quote: *"The OWASP Top Ten is a list of the most critical web
application security flaws – a list also often used as a minimum
standard for web application vulnerability assessment (VA) and
compliance. There is an ongoing industry dialog about the possibility of
identifying the OWASP Top Ten in a purely automated fashion (scanning).
People frequently ask what can and can’t be found using either white box
or black box scanners. This is important because a single missed
vulnerability, or more accurately exploited vulnerability, can cause an
organization significant financial harm. Proper expectations must be set
when it comes to the various vulnerability assessment solutions."*

Note: I haven't seen any Web App Scannor vendor responses, so if you
spot it let me know.

#### Latest Blog Entries from blogs.owasp.org

  - from [Eoin Keary](http://blogs.owasp.org/eoinkeary/) blog
      - [OWASP Testing Guide
        v2.0](http://blogs.owasp.org/eoinkeary/2007/01/11/owasp-testing-guide-v20/),
        January 11th, 2007
      - [OWASP Code review
        Guide](http://blogs.owasp.org/eoinkeary/2007/01/03/owasp-code-review-guide/),
        January 3rd
      - [innerHTML and eval - Javascript/Ajax attacks
        - 101](http://blogs.owasp.org/eoinkeary/2007/01/03/innerhtml-and-eval-javascriptajax-attacks-101/),
        January 3rd, 2007
      - [What Next for App Sec (Contd) - Gmail
        exploit](http://blogs.owasp.org/eoinkeary/2007/01/02/what-next-for-app-sec-contd-gmail-exploit/),
        January 2nd, 2007
      - [OWASP Live
        CD](http://blogs.owasp.org/eoinkeary/2007/01/02/owasp-live-cd/),
        January 2nd, 2007
      - [What next for app
        Sec](http://blogs.owasp.org/eoinkeary/2007/01/02/what-next-for-app-sec/),
        January 2nd, 2007
  - from [Life of an OWASP Chapter Leader](http://blogs.owasp.org/seba/)
    blog
      - [The OWASP Chapter Leader
        Handbook](http://blogs.owasp.org/seba/2007/01/06/the-owasp-chapter-leader-handbook/),
        January 6th, 2007 by
      - [PHP
        (in)security](http://blogs.owasp.org/seba/2006/12/15/php-insecurity/),
        December 15th
      - [Poll results of last
        year](http://blogs.owasp.org/seba/2006/12/15/poll-results-of-last-year/),
        December 15th
      - [So you want to become a chapter
        leader?](http://blogs.owasp.org/seba/2006/12/14/so-you-want-to-become-a-chapter-leader/),
        December 14th
  - from [On Security](http://blogs.owasp.org/mike/) blog
      - [Good Development Leads to Good
        Security](http://blogs.owasp.org/mike/2007/01/09/good-development-leads-to-good-security/),
        January 9th, 2007
  - from [HTTP SOAP Pen Testing](http://blogs.owasp.org/webservices/)
    blog
      - [Pen Testing Web
        Services](http://blogs.owasp.org/webservices/2006/12/13/hello-world/),
        December 13th

#### Latest additions to the WIKI

**New pages**

  - [OWASP Testing Project v2.0 - Review
    Guidelines](OWASP_Testing_Project_v2.0_-_Review_Guidelines "wikilink")
    - Support page for the OWASP Testing Project V2.0 Review effort
    where you will find more details on how to participate in this
    collaborative review process.
  - [Chapter Leader Handbook](Chapter_Leader_Handbook "wikilink") -
    Handbook for new and experienced chapter leaders on leading an
    active chapter community.
  - [OWASP WebScarab NG Project](OWASP_WebScarab_NG_Project "wikilink")
    - Rogan details his work on the new version of WebScarab
  - [Phoenix/Tools](Phoenix/Tools "wikilink") - Good list of Web App Sec
    tools
  - Eoin has been quite busy this week working on the new version of
    the[:Category: OWASP Code Review
    Project](:Category:_OWASP_Code_Review_Project "wikilink")
      - [Logging issues](Logging_issues "wikilink")
      - [Reviewing Code for Buffer Overruns and
        Overflows](Reviewing_Code_for_Buffer_Overruns_and_Overflows "wikilink")
      - [Reviewing Code for OS
        Injection](Reviewing_Code_for_OS_Injection "wikilink")
      - [Reviewing Code for Data
        Validation](Reviewing_Code_for_Data_Validation "wikilink")
      - [Reviewing Code for Logging
        Issues](Reviewing_Code_for_Logging_Issues "wikilink")
      - [Reviewing The Secure Code
        Environment](Reviewing_The_Secure_Code_Environment "wikilink")
      - [Chapters Assigned](Chapters_Assigned "wikilink")
      - just starting [SQL Injection Cookbook
        template](SQL_Injection_Cookbook_template "wikilink"), [SQL
        Injection Cookbook -
        Oracle](SQL_Injection_Cookbook_-_Oracle "wikilink"),
        [Preface](Preface "wikilink") , [Reasons for using automated
        tools](Reasons_for_using_automated_tools "wikilink"),[Education
        and cultural change](Education_and_cultural_change "wikilink"),
        [Tool Deployment Model](Tool_Deployment_Model "wikilink")

**Edited Pages**

  - [OWASP_AppSec_Conference_Sponsors](OWASP_AppSec_Conference_Sponsors "wikilink")
    - for you if you want to sponsor one of the [next OWASP
    conferences](:Category:OWASP_AppSec_Conference "wikilink"). Quote
    from page: *"OWASP is accepting sponsorships for the 2007 OWASP
    Conferences. Financial sponsorship for a conference will help defray
    the non-profit OWASP Foundation's expenses to prepare for and hold
    this conference."*
  - Chapter updates: [New_Zealand](New_Zealand "wikilink") ,
    [Denver](Denver "wikilink"), [Washington
    DC](Washington_DC "wikilink")
  - [Membership](Membership "wikilink")
  - [Securing tomcat](Securing_tomcat "wikilink")
  - [Cross-Site Request Forgery](Cross-Site_Request_Forgery "wikilink")
  - [Chapter Rules](Chapter_Rules "wikilink")
  - [OWASP Autumn of Code 2006 - Projects: Web
    Goat](OWASP_Autumn_of_Code_2006_-_Projects:_Web_Goat "wikilink")

#### OWASP Community

  - **Feb 13 (18:00h) - [Ireland chapter meeting](Ireland "wikilink")**

<!-- end list -->

  - **Feb 6 (18:00h) - [Melbourne chapter
    meeting](Melbourne "wikilink")**

<!-- end list -->

  - **Jan 31 (15:00h) - [Mumbai chapter meeting](Mumbai "wikilink")**

<!-- end list -->

  - '''Jan 30 (11:30h) - [Austin chapter meeting](Austin "wikilink")

<!-- end list -->

  - **Jan 25 (14:30h) - [Italy@ISACA
    Rome](Italy#October_25th.2C_2007_-_Isaca_Rome "wikilink")**

<!-- end list -->

  - **Jan 23 (18:00h) - [Belgium chapter meeting](Belgium "wikilink")**

<!-- end list -->

  - **Jan 22 (18:00h) - [Rochester chapter
    meeting](Rochester "wikilink")**

<!-- end list -->

  - **Jan 17 (18:30h) - [Denver chapter meeting](Denver "wikilink")**

<!-- end list -->

  - **Jan 16 (17:45h) - [Edmonton chapter
    meeting](Edmonton "wikilink")**

#### Application Security News (from Owasp.org)

  - **Jan 10 - [Vulnerability Disclosure: The Good, the Bad and the
    Ugly](http://www2.csoonline.com/exclusives/column.html?CID=28072)**
    *More than a decade into the practice of vulnerability disclosure,
    where do we stand? Are we more secure? Or less?*, three good
    articles: [Microsoft: Responsible Vulnerability Disclosure Protects
    Users](http://www2.csoonline.com/exclusives/column.html?CID=28071) ,
    [Schneier: Full Disclosure of Security Vulnerabilities a ’Damned
    Good
    Idea’](http://www2.csoonline.com/exclusives/column.html?CID=28073),
    [The Vulnerability Disclosure Game: Are We More
    Secure?](http://www2.csoonline.com/exclusives/column.html?CID=28072)
    and [The Chilling
    Effect](http://www.csoonline.com/read/010107/fea_vuln.html)

#### OWASP references in the Media

  - [Automated Scanning vs. The OWASP Top
    Ten](http://www.net-security.org/article.php?id=970), Help Net
    Security, Croatia - Jan 11, 2007
  - [AJAX, Design, and Mobile
    Devices](http://br.sys-con.com/read/264922.htm), SYS-CON Media, NJ -
    Jan 10, 2007
  - [Hot or Not: Web application
    vulnerabilities](http://scmagazine.com/us/news/article/623765/hot-not-web-application-vulnerabilities),
    SC Magazine, UK - Dec 28, 2006
  - [Sprajax Author – AJAX Security Tool – To Speak at
    AJAXWorld 2007](http://au.sys-con.com/read/322897.htm), SYS-CON
    Media, NJ - Jan 13, 2007
  - [Web application security vulnerabilities by the
    numbers](http://www.computerweekly.com/Articles/2007/01/11/221120/web-application-security-vulnerabilities-by-the-numbers.htm),
    ComputerWeekly.com, UK - Jan 11, 2007
  - This one is actual an mistake from PSC Group LLC, since there is
    currently no relationship with them an OWASP (note: I emailed them
    and they corrected this on their website) [Fujitsu’s GlobalSTORE
    Software Completes Visa’s Payment
    ...](http://home.businesswire.com/portal/site/google/index.jsp?ndmViewId=news_view&newsId=20070109005299&newsLang=en),
    Business Wire (press release), CA - Jan 9, 2007 (there is a major
    typo in this article (OWASP related), see if you can spot it :) )
  - [WhiteHat Security Announces Risk-Free Competitive Trade-Up
    Program](http://www.prnewswire.com/cgi-bin/stories.pl?ACCT=104&STORY=/www/story/01-09-2007/0004502553&EDATE=),
    PR Newswire (press release), NY - Jan 9, 2007

__NOEDITSECTION__