become a [Member or Annual Chapter
Sponsor(s)](http://www.owasp.org/index.php/Membership#Categories_of_Membership_.26_Supporters).

## OWASP Ireland-Limerick Board

Should you have a question about the local chapter, would like to get
more involved contact ANY of the following people below


  - **President** [Marian
    Ventuneac](mailto:marian.ventuneac@owasp.org)
  - **Vice President** TBD
  - **Secretary** TBD


**OWASP Ireland-Limerick**
Address - TBD
<paypal>Ireland-Limerick</paypal>

## OWASP Ireland Limerick 2012 Events



## OWASP Ireland Limerick Day


**When:** 09/11/2012 2:00pm - 6:00pm

**Where:** Absolute Hotel, Sir Harry's Mall , Limerick

**Sponsors:** **WhiteHat Security, Mozilla, Genworth Financial**

<span style="color: red; text-decoration:"> This free event is open to
all participants with an interest in application security.
Entry is limited to **only 50 participants**. Registration is required -
if you are planning to attend you must RSVP at
<http://owasp-ireland-limerick-day-2012.eventbrite.com> </span>

For ISACA and (ISC)² members: This event qualifies for free CPE
credits/hours.

**AGENDA**

2:00 - 2:10 **OWASP Limerick/Munster Chapter - Introduction, Agenda and
Speakers**

**Download:** [OWASP Limerick 2012 Day -
Agenda](https://www.owasp.org/images/a/ab/OWASPIreland-Limerick-Day_20121109_Agenda.ppt)



2:10 - 3:00
**Building Security Into Frameworks** - presented by Jerry Hoff, VP of
the Static Code Analysis Division at WhiteHat Security

**Abstract:** Who is doing it right. In this talk, Jerry will discuss
the importance of security controls in mobile and web frameworks. The
talk features a tour through a spectrum of languages and frameworks. A
tip of the hat will be given to frameworks and security controls that
demonstrably mitigate vulnerabilities, resulting in more secure code. A
wag of the finger will be given to frameworks that either lack essential
security controls, or implement them improperly. Many of the OWASP Top
10 vulnerabilities and their corresponding security controls will be
discussed. Participants will walk away with a better understanding of
the security libraries available across a wide array of popular web
technologies.

**Presenter:** Jerry Hoff is the VP of the Static Code Analysis Division
at WhiteHat Security. Prior to joining WhiteHat, Jerry was a co-founder
and managing partner at Infrared Security. Jerry has worked at a number
of fortune ten financial firms, along with years of hands-on security
consulting, where he specialized in manual code review, web and mobile
application penetration testing, and architecture reviews. He speaks
regularly at numerous security organizations and security events, such
as those held by ISSA, ISACA, IANS, Gartner and OWASP.

Jerry also has years of development and teaching experience. He taught
for over seven years at Washington University's CAIT program, and the
microcomputer program at University of Missouri in St. Louis. Jerry is
the writer/producer of the very popular OWASP Appsec Tutorial Series and
the lead developer for the OWASP WebGoat.NET project.

**Download:** not yet available


3:00 - 3:50
**Building Secure Applications: SQLi Training Session** presented by
Marian Ventuneac, Security Architect, Genworth Financial

**Abstract:** For developers and InfoSec professionals alike, this talk
will provide a practical approach to identifying and preventing SQL
Injection vulnerabilities in Web applications. Testing techniques, tools
and secure coding best practices for Java, .NET, PHP, etc will be
discussed.

**Presenter:** Marian Ventuneac is a Security Architect with a Genworth
Financial and the leader of OWASP Ireland-Limerick Chapter. As a Senior
Consultant and Security Engineer, Marian previously provided software
development and application security consultancy services for companies
such as Dell Services, Perot Systems and Original Solutions Ltd.

As part of his research on Application Security, he collaborated with
vendors such as Google, Symantec, IBM, and Salesforce on assessing and
improving the security of various enterprise solutions. Marian holds a
Computer Science degree by Technical University of Cluj-Napoca, as well
as a MEng in Applied Security Frameworks and a PhD on Formal
Verification of Security Protocols by the University of Limerick.

**Download:** [Building Secure Applications: SQLi Training
Session](http://www.ventuneac.net/research-publications/MarianVentuneac_OWASPIreland-Limerick-Day_20121109_SQLiTrainingSession.pdf)


3:50 - 4:10 **Tea/Coffee Break, Networking/Socialising**


4:10 - 5:00
**Unused Assets: Gaining an advantage** - presented by Mark Goodwin,
Security Engineer at Mozilla

**Abstract:** Web Application security flaws seem to be getting more and
more attention yet developers have never had more tools at their
disposal; modern browsers have many security features that are seldom
used and there are security tools intended for developers which are
almost exclusively used by security people. This talk discusses why this
might be the case and looks at some things we can do to catch some
security problems early and, in the process, help developers with
security awareness.

**Presenter:** Mark Goodwin works on application security for Mozilla,
creators of the popular Firefox web browser. At work, Mark works with
web and browser security. At home, he plays with the security too; web,
phone apps, consumer electronics - all sorts. Mark has previously worked
on Internet banking, e-commerce, embedded systems and logistics
software

**Download:** [Unused Assets: Gaining an
advantage](http://people.mozilla.org/~mgoodwin/presentations/20120906/)


5:00 - 5:45
**Countering jamming attacks against mobile communication** - presented
by Reiner Dojen, Lecturer, Department of Electronic and Computer
Engineering, University of Limerick

**Abstract:** Satellite communications are nowadays employed in the
provision of advanced personal communication services. However,
interference with the radio transmission medium of satellite
communications is a common threat: unintentional interferences occur
frequently and jamming attacks can be achieved using low-grade
technology. This talk discusses a new DoS attack against protocols for
satellite communications, where an attacker interrupts the
authentication phase by jamming a single message. A solution for
preventing this attack is also presented.

**Presenter:** Reiner Dojen is a Lecturer in the Department of
Electronic and Computer Engineering at the University of Limerick,
Ireland. Received title of Dipl-Ing.(FH) from University of Applied
Sciences Osnabrück, Germany, MEng from University of Limerick and PhD
from University of Limerick.

Reiner has worked for over 10 years on effective security protocols and
their verification. Further research interests include Cryptography,
Data and Network Security, Automated Theorem Proving and application
vulnerability research.

**Download:** [Countering jamming attacks against mobile
communication](https://www.owasp.org/images/3/34/OWASPIreland-Limerick-Day_20121109_CounteringJammingAttacks-ReinerDojen.pdf)


5:45 - 6:00 **Networking/Socialising**


## Past Events

**2012 Meetings**

[OWASP_Limerick_July_2012](OWASP_Limerick_July_2012 "wikilink")

[OWASP_Limerick_February_2012](OWASP_Limerick_February_2012 "wikilink")

**2011 Meetings**

[OWASP_Limerick_October2011](OWASP_Limerick_October2011 "wikilink")

[OWASP_Limerick_March_2011](OWASP_Limerick_March_2011 "wikilink")



__NOTOC__ <headertabs />

[Category:Ireland](Category:Ireland "wikilink")