*Sent to owasp-all mailing list on ?? May 2007*

## OWASP Newsletter \#9 (10-June-2007)

Welcome to the 9th OWASP Newsletter, covering:

  - Final OWASP Top 10 v2007
  - SpoC2007 Selections
  - AppSec EU Conference in Italy
  - The next Conference in San Jose, CA
  - OWASP on the Move\!
  - (non-OWASP) Project: Java Open Review Project

And pointers to the latest changes online.

If you have any content to add to the next edition, feel free to add it
directly to its WIKI page ([OWASP Newsletter
10](OWASP_Newsletter_10 "wikilink")).

PS: if all you readers regularly add an item to the Application Security
News section on
<http://www.owasp.org/index.php/Application_Security_News> we most
certainly become THE central point for the latest AppSec news (just an
idea). We could then create a seperate news feed for your favorite
aggregator.

Sebastien Deleersnyder

Belgium Chapter Leader

## Featured Item: [OWASP Top Ten](OWASP_Top_Ten "wikilink") final 2007 version \!

Thanks to the hard work of Andrew and all other contributors and
reviewers we are proud to present you the 2007 version of the [OWASP Top
10](OWASP_Top_10 "wikilink"). The OWASP Top Ten represents a broad
consensus about what the most critical web application security flaws
are. We urge all companies to adopt this awareness document within their
organization and start the process of ensuring that their web
applications do not contain these flaws.

## Featured Item: SpoC2007 Selections Made \!

OWASP is funding over 25 new application [security
projects](OWASP_Spring_Of_Code_2007_Applications "wikilink") this Spring
with over $120,000. There are a variety of tools, documents, and other
projects in the works. These projects are well underway and are targeted
to be complete by the end of July. Congratulations to all the
participants - everyone is looking forward to your work\!

## Featured Item: [6th OWASP AppSec Conference in Italy May 15-17 was a great success](6th_OWASP_AppSec_Conference_-_Italy_2007 "wikilink")

The [6th OWASP AppSec
Conference](6th_OWASP_AppSec_Conference_-_Italy_2007 "wikilink") was
held May 15-17 in Milan, Italy. Microsoft presented on "The Benefits of
the SDL initiative to Microsoft and its Customers" and there were expert
talks on Web Services Security, Securing AJAX, the Microsoft Secure
Development Lifecycle, all the new OWASP projects, and much more.

You can read all the
[details](6th_OWASP_AppSec_Conference_-_Italy_2007 "wikilink") and then
access all the presentations online on the [agenda
page](6th_OWASP_AppSec_Conference_-_Italy_2007/Agenda "wikilink").

## Featured Item: [Planning for 7th OWASP AppSec Conference in San Jose, CA in Oct. 2007 underway.](7th_OWASP_AppSec_Conference_-_San_Jose_2007 "wikilink")

We are now starting to plan the details for the [7th OWASP AppSec
Conference](7th_OWASP_AppSec_Conference_-_San_Jose_2007 "wikilink")
which will be held in Oct 2007 in the San Jose, CA area. This conference
will be our biggest ever with two full days of tutorials, two days for
the conference (including a new 3rd track on Web Services Security), and
a vendor booth area for the first time. Please check back for additional
details which should be available soon.

## Featured Item: OWASP on the Move\!

Following discussions during the conference in Italy we had the idea of
supporting OWASP presenters to spread the word at local chapter meetings
and security events.

We have set up a first trial in Belgium where Ivan Ristic and Dinis will
be doing presentations June 22nd. F5 Networks has locally sponsored
their trip with € 1000. Program on
<http://www.owasp.org/index.php/Belgium>. A first stub is set up at
<http://www.owasp.org/index.php/OWASP_on_the_Move> (WikiMedia Kung-Fu
Masters are invited to make the page look better :-)

Helsinki is already looking for OWASP speakers on SDLC, so if you are
interested or know someone: contact Mikka\!

## Featured (non-OWASP) Project: Security Through Scrutiny: Java Open Review Project

A joint project from the Findbugs group and Fortify Software is
examining open source components for security and quality defects. The
project, accessible at <http://opensource.fortifysoftware.com>, allows
participants to:

  - submit projects to be scanned with Findbugs and Fortify Source Code
    Analysis suite
  - help review potential defects through the online code review
    interface
  - keep track of project defects as they are uncovered and fixed by the
    open source community
  - receive tips on performing code reviews for security defects

The project is open to all Java open source projects and any person that
wants to contribute, either through code reviews, project submissions,
or project feedback. Current projects include: Tomcat, Jforums, Azureus,
Nuxeo, Spring, Struts, select OWASP projects, and more\!

People are encouraged to visit the site:
<http://opensource.fortifysoftware.com> for more details or stop by the
Fortify/Findbugs demo booth at JavaOne 2007. Project owners that are
interested in being featured can email: openaudit <at> fortifysoftware
<dot> com

## Latest additions to the WIKI

#### Updated Chapter Pages

  - [Greece](Greece "wikilink")
  - [Ottawa](Ottawa "wikilink")
  - [Cleveland](Cleveland "wikilink")
  - [Chicago](Chicago "wikilink")
  - [Sacramento](Sacramento "wikilink")
  - [Bangalore](Bangalore "wikilink")
  - [2nd OWASP IL mini
    conference](2nd_OWASP_IL_mini_conference "wikilink")
  - [Vancouver](Vancouver "wikilink")
  - [Turkey](Turkey "wikilink")
  - [Boston](Boston "wikilink")
  - [Denver](Denver "wikilink")
  - [SoCal](SoCal "wikilink")
  - [Toronto](Toronto "wikilink")
  - [Kansas City](Kansas_City "wikilink")
  - [New York](New_York "wikilink")
  - [New Jersey](New_Jersey "wikilink")
  - [NYNJMetro](NYNJMetro "wikilink")
  - [Helsinki](Helsinki "wikilink")
  - [Belgium](Belgium "wikilink")
  - [Luxemburg](Luxemburg "wikilink")
  - [Houston](Houston "wikilink")
  - [Switzerland](Switzerland "wikilink")
  - [Phoenix](Phoenix "wikilink")
  - [Virginia (Northern
    Virginia)‎](Virginia_\(Northern_Virginia\)‎ "wikilink")
  - [Taiwan](Taiwan "wikilink")
  - [Long Island](Long_Island "wikilink")
  - [Austin](Austin "wikilink")
  - [Italy](Italy "wikilink")
  - [Minneapolis St Paul](Minneapolis_St_Paul "wikilink")

#### Other pages

  - [Session Management](Session_Management "wikilink")
  - [Guide to Authorization](Guide_to_Authorization "wikilink")
  - [Ajax and Other "Rich" Interface
    Technologies](Ajax_and_Other_"Rich"_Interface_Technologies "wikilink")
  - [Web Services](Web_Services "wikilink")
  - [Buffer Overflows](Buffer_Overflows "wikilink")
  - [:Category:OWASP Orizon
    Project](:Category:OWASP_Orizon_Project "wikilink")
  - [DN BOFinder](DN_BOFinder "wikilink")
  - [:Category:OWASP .NET
    Project](:Category:OWASP_.NET_Project "wikilink")
  - [:Category:OWASP Guide
    Project](:Category:OWASP_Guide_Project "wikilink")
  - [:Category:OWASP Top Ten
    Project](:Category:OWASP_Top_Ten_Project "wikilink")
  - [:Category:OWASP Chapter](:Category:OWASP_Chapter "wikilink")
  - [Scripting in WebScarab](Scripting_in_WebScarab "wikilink")
  - [Handling E-Commerce
    Payments](Handling_E-Commerce_Payments "wikilink")
  - [Assume attackers have source
    code](Assume_attackers_have_source_code "wikilink")
  - [Member Offers](Member_Offers "wikilink")
  - [Data Validation](Data_Validation "wikilink")
  - [OWASP Stinger Version 2](OWASP_Stinger_Version_2 "wikilink")
  - [:Category:OWASP Tools
    Project](:Category:OWASP_Tools_Project "wikilink")
  - [Java Server Faces](Java_Server_Faces "wikilink")
  - [Cross Site Scripting](Cross_Site_Scripting "wikilink")
  - [:Category:OWASP Testing
    Project](:Category:OWASP_Testing_Project "wikilink")
  - [OWASP Education
    Presentation](OWASP_Education_Presentation "wikilink")
  - [Getting Started](Getting_Started "wikilink")
  - [Java Security Resources](Java_Security_Resources "wikilink")
  - [:Category:OWASP WebGoat
    Project](:Category:OWASP_WebGoat_Project "wikilink")
  - [How to value the real risk](How_to_value_the_real_risk "wikilink")
  - [Failure to verify
    authorization](Failure_to_verify_authorization "wikilink")
  - [Testing for XML
    Structural](Testing_for_XML_Structural_\(OWASP-WS-003\) "wikilink")
  - [Man-in-the-middle attack](Man-in-the-middle_attack "wikilink")
  - [Preventing LDAP Injection in
    Java](Preventing_LDAP_Injection_in_Java "wikilink")
  - [Path Traversal](Path_Traversal "wikilink")
  - [Script in IMG tags](Script_in_IMG_tags "wikilink")
  - [Server-Side Includes (SSI)
    Injection](Server-Side_Includes_\(SSI\)_Injection "wikilink")
  - [6th OWASP AppSec Conference - Italy
    2007/Agenda](6th_OWASP_AppSec_Conference_-_Italy_2007/Agenda "wikilink")
  - [OWASP News](OWASP_News "wikilink")
  - [Membership](Membership "wikilink")
  - [OWASP Community 2006](OWASP_Community_2006 "wikilink")
  - [:Category:OWASP Live CD
    Project](:Category:OWASP_Live_CD_Project "wikilink")
  - [Phoenix/Tools](Phoenix/Tools "wikilink")
  - [Phoenix/ToolsProfile](Phoenix/ToolsProfile "wikilink")
  - [JAAS Tomcat Login Module](JAAS_Tomcat_Login_Module "wikilink")
  - [:Category:OWASP PHP AntiXSS Library
    Project](:Category:OWASP_PHP_AntiXSS_Library_Project "wikilink")
  - [Using password systems](Using_password_systems "wikilink")
  - [XPATH Injection](XPATH_Injection "wikilink")
  - [OWASP Application Security
    FAQ](OWASP_Application_Security_FAQ "wikilink")

#### New pages

A selection of new pages:

  - [OWASP on the Move](OWASP_on_the_Move "wikilink")
  - [Universal PDF XSS](Universal_PDF_XSS "wikilink")
  - [Webscarab XSS-CRLF plugin](Webscarab_XSS-CRLF_plugin "wikilink")
  - [Escaping the phishing net](Escaping_the_phishing_net "wikilink")
  - [Struts](Struts "wikilink")
  - [Scripting in WebScarab](Scripting_in_WebScarab "wikilink")
  - [:Category:OWASP Certification Criteria
    Project](:Category:OWASP_Certification_Criteria_Project "wikilink")
  - [:Category:OWASP Application Security Requirements
    Project](:Category:OWASP_Application_Security_Requirements_Project "wikilink")
  - [:Category:OWASP Communications
    Project](:Category:OWASP_Communications_Project "wikilink")
  - [OWASP Band](OWASP_Band "wikilink") One of the highlights at the 6th
    OWASP AppSec Conference in Milan was probably the first concert of
    the "OWASP Band" which was leaded by Dinis Cruz.
  - [Anatomy of 2 Web Applications
    Testing](Anatomy_of_2_Web_Applications_Testing "wikilink")

#### New Documents & Presentations from chapters

For a complete list of chapter presentations see [the online table of
presentations](OWASP_Education_Presentation "wikilink").

#### Latest Blog entries

  - [OWASP, Evangelism and
    Ounce](http://blogs.owasp.org/diniscruz/2007/04/19/owasp-evangelism-and-ounce/)
  - [HOWTO: Bastion
    XSSString](http://blogs.owasp.org/orizon/2007/04/03/howto-bastion-xssstring/)
  - [Orizon
    v.0.10-b25](http://blogs.owasp.org/orizon/2007/04/03/orizon-v010-b25/)
  - [Bastion
    contest](http://blogs.owasp.org/orizon/2007/04/03/bastion-contest/)
  - [Switching to
    Java6?](http://blogs.owasp.org/orizon/2007/04/02/switching-to-java6/)
  - [Eu conf…](http://blogs.owasp.org/orizon/2007/03/31/eu-conf/)

#### OWASP Community

Chapter news:

  - '''Three new chapters: [Boulder](Boulder "wikilink"),
    [‎Calgary](‎Calgary "wikilink") and [Pune](Pune "wikilink").
  - '''The [Belgium](Belgium "wikilink") and
    [Luxemburg](Luxemburg "wikilink") chapter are combined into a new
    BeLux chapter.
  - '''Mar 30 - NYC and New Jersey OWASP Chapter Combine: [Over 500
    Members combined - NY/NJ
    Metro](https://www.owasp.org/index.php/NYNJMetro/)

Upcoming Chapter meetings:

  - **June 12 (18:00hr) - [NY/NJ Metro chapter
    meeting](New_Jersey "wikilink")**
  - **Jun 5 (18:00h) - [Melbourne chapter
    meeting](Melbourne "wikilink")**
  - **May 29 (9:00h) - [Italy@Firenze
    Tecnologia](http://www.owasp.org/index.php/Italy#May_29th.2C_2007_-_Seminar:_.22Software_Security.22)**
  - **May 21 (14:00h) - [2nd OWASP Israel mini
    conference](Israel "wikilink")**
  - **May 15 (18:00h) - [Rochester chapter
    meeting](Rochester "wikilink")**
  - **May 10 (18:00h) - [Belgium chapter meeting](Belgium "wikilink")**
  - **May 9 (18:00h) - [Toronto chapter meeting](Toronto "wikilink")**
  - **May 8 (18:00h) - [Washington DC (N. VA) chapter
    meeting](Virginia_\(Northern_Virginia\) "wikilink")**
  - **May 2 (18:30h) - [Boston chapter meeting](Boston "wikilink")**
  - **May 1 (18:00h) - [Melbourne chapter
    meeting](Melbourne "wikilink")**

#### Application Security News

  - **Apr 21 - [Concurrency and
    porn](http://www.theage.com.au/articles/2007/04/23/1177180548617.html)**
    "First it was porn, now it's privacy - a technical stuff-up on
    reality show Big Brother's website is said to have exposed the
    personal details of fans who signed up for its special features.
    Following reports that visitors to a pirate Big Brother site were
    sent to a hardcore porn page, it now seems the names and phone
    numbers of people who registered for the official site were able to
    be viewed by others"

<!-- end list -->

  - **Apr 21 - [Does first Vista 0day undermine
    SDL?](http://www.enterprisenetworkingplanet.com/netsecur/article.php/3673056)**
    Ken van Wyk discusses the importance of process for producing secure
    software, and notes that attacks on Vista may undermine the general
    support for Microsoft's approach. Check out Michael Howard's
    [talk](http://www.owasp.org/index.php/Image:OWASPAppSec2006Seattle_SecurityEngineeringInVista.ppt)
    from the last OWASP conference for a great discussion on the success
    of the SDL.

<!-- end list -->

  - **Apr 19 - [Why the software market is full of
    lemons](http://www.wired.com/politics/security/commentary/securitymatters/2007/04/securitymatters_0419?currentPage=all)**
    Bruce Schneier finally chimes in on an [old OWASP
    theme](http://www.aspectsecurity.com/documents/Aspect_HCSS_Unsafe_At_Any_Speed.ppt)
    - the problem of assymetric information between software buyers and
    sellers. He only talks about security products, but the same problem
    affects all types of software. Check the \[[Software Facts
    Label](http://www.owasp.org/index.php/Types_of_application_security_metrics)
    which is an idea for actually doing something to change the game.

<!-- end list -->

  - **Apr 10 - ["There is no
    hope"](http://www.csoonline.com/alarmed/?source=nlt_csoupdate)**
    Despite all the good stuff at OWASP, Scott Berinato is giving up.
    "No official announcement is forthcoming, but the Internet is broken
    and it can't be repaired. Oh, it's still there. You can still use
    it. Then again, if you went hiking and came across an old,
    broken-down mine shaft, you could still use that, too."

## OWASP references in the Media

  - [Reflection on Andrew Van Der
    Stock](http://myappsecurity.blogspot.com/2007/04/reflection-on-andrew-van-der-stock.html)
  - [Security Metrics](http://blog.securitymonks.com/?p=32)
  - [Security concerns in the Web 2.0
    world](http://sunbeltblog.blogspot.com/2007/04/security-concerns-in-web-20-world.html)
  - [The ISM Community
    Revamp](http://securitybuddha.com/2007/04/25/the-ism-community-revamp/)
  - [Guy Podjarny to Present at San Antonio
    OWASP](http://denimgroup.typepad.com/denim_group/2007/04/guy_podjarney_t.html)
  - [Google AJAX Feed API
    Dangers](http://www.gnucitizen.org/blog/google-ajax-feed-api-dangers/)
  - [Lock it down: Use the revised OWASP Top Ten to secure your Web
    applications -
    Part 5](http://www.dzone.com/rsslinks/lock_it_down_use_the_revised_owasp_top_ten_to_sec_3.html)
  - [Writing Secure Code: The Root Cause of the
    Problem?](http://radajo.blogspot.com/2007/04/writing-secure-code-root-cause-of.html)
  - [Scottish Developers Security
    Day](http://idunno.org/archive/2007/04/16/Scottish-Developers-Security-Day.aspx)