OWASP Israel 2007 Conference was held at the Interdisciplinary Center
(IDC) Herzliya on Dec 3rd 2007. More than 200 people attended the
conference and enjoyed interesting presentations, a great networking
opportunity. OWASP Israel 2007 became a must be for any application
security professional and drew a lot of people from the wider
information security community as well.

## Sponsors & Contributors

The meeting is sponsored by [Breach Security](http://www.breach.com),
[Hacktics](http://www.hacktics.com), [GamaSec](http://www.gamasec.com),
[Applicure](http://www.applicure.com), The National Information Security
Forum and the [Efi Arazi school of Computer Science at the
Interdisciplinary Center (IDC)
Herzliya](http://portal.idc.ac.il/en/main/academics/cs/Pages/General.aspx).

<center>

![Image:Breach_logo.gif](Breach_logo.gif
"Image:Breach_logo.gif")    ![OWASP_IL_Sponsor_Hacktics.jpg](OWASP_IL_Sponsor_Hacktics.jpg
"OWASP_IL_Sponsor_Hacktics.jpg")    
<https://www.owasp.org/images/b/bb/OWASP_IL_Sponsor_GamaSec.jpg>     
<https://www.owasp.org/images/c/c8/OWAS_IL_Sponsor_Applicure.JPG>     
<https://www.owasp.org/images/8/8c/OWASP_IL_LOGO_NISF.jpg>
    ![OWASP_IL_Sponsor_IDC.jpg](OWASP_IL_Sponsor_IDC.jpg
"OWASP_IL_Sponsor_IDC.jpg")

</center>

Additional [sponsorship](OWASP_IL_Sponsorship "wikilink") opportunities
still available, [contact me](mailto:ofer@shezaf.com) for details.

I would also like to thank those individuals which without their help
this event would not be possible:

  - Dr. Anat Bremler-Bar, our host at the IDC.

<!-- end list -->

  - Shay Shuker, on helping with organization.

<!-- end list -->

  - Bat-Sheva Shezaf, who took pictures.

## Pictures

The pictures from the conference available
[here](http://picasaweb.google.com/oshezaf/OWASPIsrael2007).

## Program

The following presentation where given at OWASP Israel 2007:

### [Cross Site Request Forgery - Overview and Solutions](Media:OWASP_IL_2007_CSRF_basics.ppt "wikilink")

**Ofer Shezaf, OWASP IL chapter leader, Breach Security**

Cross Site Request Forgery (CSRF) made the highest entry into this
year's version of the OWASP top 10, jumping straight to number 5. But as
common and dangerous as it is, CSRF has remained obscured to many, and
the ways to protect your application even less well understood. This
turbo talk will provide an overview of CSRF and the common ways to
mitigate it, leading to Amichai Shulman’s presentation which will
present innovative methods for protecting from CSRF.

Ofer will also update on the OWASP 2007 conference in San Jose and other
OWASP news.

([PowerPoint](Media:OWASP_IL_2007_CSRF_basics.ppt "wikilink"),
[video](ftp://ftp.idc.ac.il/csvideos/OWASP%2007/Ofer%20Shezaf_1.wmv))

### [Defeating Web 2.0 Attacks without Recoding Applications](Media:OWASP-WASCAppSec2007SanJose_DefeatWeb2.0Attacks.ppt "wikilink")

**Amichai Shulman, CTO, Imperva**

Amichai will present a novel approach for solving client side solutions
which would naturally be considered out of reach for server applications
such as CSRF and JavaScript Hijacking. The method uses a gateway to
inject a script that will require feedback from the client. If you have
seen the presentation about content injection in the last OWASP IL
meeting and felt it lacked actual working examples, Amichai provides
some very strong evidence of the usefulness of this method.

This talk was presented in OWASP 2007 in San Jose.

([PowerPoint](Media:OWASP-WASCAppSec2007SanJose_DefeatWeb2.0Attacks.ppt "wikilink"),
[video](ftp://ftp.idc.ac.il/csvideos/OWASP%2007/Amihai%20Shulman_chunk_1.wmv))

### Hunting Down XSS Vulnerabilities

**Erez Metula, Application Security Department Manager, 2Bsecure**

XSS is the most common web application vulnerability and leads the OWASP
top 10. The lecture will discuss automatic and manual approaches for
detecting XSS vulnerabilities. Erez will present tools used to find XSS
vulnerabilities as well as innovative method to overcome obstacles when
looking for vulnerabilities.

([video](ftp://ftp.idc.ac.il/csvideos/OWASP%2007/Erez_chunk_1.wmv))

### The National Information Security Forum

**Avi Weissman, CEO, See-Security**

Avi will take 10 minutes to announce and describe the new [national
information security forum (NISF](http://www.nisf.org.il)), a new
information security initiative that we welcome and would like to
cooperate with at OWASP.

### How Dangerous Is It Out There?

**Dror Paz, Director of Professional Services, Breach Security**

One of the key issues facing application security professionals is the
lack of information about the actual risk. The number of reported
incidents is small, and therefore while the potential danger of web
layer attacks is known, whether and how this potential is abused is a
great mystery. In the presentation, Dror Paz will show what’s really
happening out there, based on work done in project such as the open
proxy honeypot project, WASC statistics project and the Web Hacking
Incidents database as well as information gathered (incognito) from
Breach installations around the globe.

this presentation was canceled since Dror was sick and would be
rescheduled for a future OWASP meeting.

### [SOA security](Media:OWASP_IL_2007_SOA_security.ppt "wikilink")

**Iris Levari, Amdocs**

As application security specialists we need to follow up with
information technology trends. Service Oriented Architecture (SOA) is a
new method for developing large scale enterprise applications that
promise to revolutionize the IT landscape. Applications built around SOA
isolates each business process into a separate service that can serve
and interconnect with other services. SOA can use different technologies
such as XML, Web Services and SOAP as its infrastructure. The
presentation will explain SOA and discuss the security features and
considerations when adapting SOA.

([PowerPoint](Media:OWASP_IL_2007_SOA_security.ppt "wikilink"),
[video](ftp://ftp.idc.ac.il/csvideos/OWASP%2007/Iris%20Lev-Arie_chunk_1.wmv))

### [The PKI Lie - Attacking Certificate-Based Authentication](Media:OWASP-WASCAppSec2007SanJose_PKILie.ppt "wikilink")

**Ofer Maor, CTO, Hacktics**

While public key cryptography and client side certificates have
certainly proved to be a very valuable security mechanism, blind
reliance on them may lead to a disaster. These complex technologies are
prone to implementation and deployment mistakes that hinders them
useless. Ofer will discuss and demonstrate some common implementation
pitfalls he often sees in real life PKI based authentication systems.

This talk was presented in OWASP 2007 in San Jose.

([PowerPoint](Media:OWASP-WASCAppSec2007SanJose_PKILie.ppt "wikilink"),
[video](ftp://ftp.idc.ac.il/csvideos/OWASP%2007/Ofer%20Maor_chunk_1.wmv))

### [Harvesting Skype Super-Nodes](https://www.owasp.org/images/1/1f/OWASP_IL_2007_Harvesting_Skype_SuperNodes.pdf)

**Omer Dekel, IDC**

Skype has revolutionized the way we use VoIP and has entered almost
every network and all parts of the Internet. However, little is known
about the way the Skype Network operates. Further, since its traffic is
encrypted and bypasses firewalls, the network administrators have almost
no ability to monitor or filter Skype. In this work we explore the
possibility of filtering Skype traffic by harvesting its Super Nodes
(SNs), which form the heart of Skype, and of blocking the network nodes
from connecting to them. Using experimental results and an analytic
model we show that it is possible to collect a large enough number of
SNs as to block, with a probability higher than 95%, the service for an
arbitrary connecting client.

This talk is based on a research project done with Dr. Anat Bremler-Barr
(IDC) & Prof. Hanoch Levy (ETH)

[Download presentation (PDF
format)](Media:OWASP_IL_2007_Harvesting_Skype_SuperNodes.pdf‎ "wikilink")

### [Smuggling SQL injection attacks](Media:OWASP_IL_2007_SQL_Smuggling.pdf‎ "wikilink")

**Avi Douglen, ComSec**

SQL Injection is a common, well-understood application-level attack
against databases. Several protection mechanisms exist for protecting
from SQL injection attacks, including input validation and use of stored
procedures. The presentation will discuss novel techniques to bypass
these protection mechanisms by exploiting differences in interpretation
between systems.

This is a new research work presented for the first time in OWASP Israel
2007.

([PDF](Media:OWASP_IL_2007_SQL_Smuggling.pdf‎ "wikilink"),
[video](ftp://ftp.idc.ac.il/csvideos/OWASP%2007/Avi%20Doglen_chunk_1.wmv))

[Category:Israel](Category:Israel "wikilink")