# Keynote

### Why Are Investors Excited About Cyber Security Startups, Again?‎

***Ron Moritz, Consigliere on Venture Strategies, Issues and Trends***
([download
presentation](media:OWASP_IL_2013_10_OWASP_Ron_Moritz_Why_Are_Investors_Excited_About_Cyber_Security_Startups.pdf‎ "wikilink")
| [watch
video](http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=WTmd7ahBXAU&list=SPA4gj-PiNukdr7SY4XKoF4xhb0XZYw-WI&index=1))

Ron will speak about the current state of security startups, the current
crop of security problems being solved by startups, and the trends of
what solutions investment capital is looking to support.

The Keynote will be in English.


<u>Speaker Bio</u>

Ron Moritz is a well-regarded executive with over twenty-five years of
broad operational and strategy experience from premier technology
companies such as Microsoft (GM, Forefront), Symantec (SVP & CTO), and
Computer Associates (SVP, Security Products Business Unit), where he was
a member of each company's distinguished corporate or divisional
leadership teams.

Having advised C-level executives, boards of directors, venture
capitalists and private equity firms on value-creation activities
including new markets, acquisition and divestiture strategy, global
sourcing of labor, major technology decisions, and eco-system
development, Mr. Moritz brings a unique point of view at the
intersection of technology, strategy, global markets and finance.

Ron is currently a partner in Aura Coffee, a third-wave coffee roasting
company based in Modiin; a member of the Fireblade board of directors;
and a mentor Jerusalem-based crowd-funding leader, OurCrowd.



# Plenary Sessions

### Evolution of online banking attack techniques

***Amit Klein, CTO, Trusteer*** ([watch
video](http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=PBqqKYgU2ZM&list=SPA4gj-PiNukdr7SY4XKoF4xhb0XZYw-WI&index=2))

I will survey the evolution of attack techniques against online banking
since the mid-2000s till today. This starts with keylogging malware,
moves over to screenshooting malware, and finally gets to HTML injection
malware (the “Man in the Browser” concept). I will then show several
examples of the power of MitB attacks, especially when combined with
social engineering, and how this can overcome many security measures
such as two-factor authentication and transaction verification.


<u>Speaker Bio</u>

As Trusteer’s CTO, Amit Klein manages the company’s security research.
Prior to Trusteer, Mr. Klein was Chief Scientist at Cyota Inc. (acquired
by RSA Security), a leading provider of layered authentication
solutions. In this role, Mr. Klein researched technologies that prevent
online fraud, phishing, and pharming and filed several patents in those
areas. Prior to this, Mr. Klein worked as Director of Security and
Research at Sanctum, Inc. (acquired by Watchfire), where he was
responsible for the security architecture of all Sanctum products. Mr.
Klein holds a B.Sc. (cum laude) in Mathematics and Physics. Mr. Klein is
a world-renowned security researcher, having published more than thirty
articles, papers and technical notes on the topic of Internet security.
He was named CTO of the Year by InfoWorld Magazine and has presented at
many prestigious conferences including RSA, FSISAC, OWASP and CertConf.


<u>Technical Level:</u> Intermediate



### Your mobile device in the service of the malicious hacker (Live Demo)

''''' Adi Sharabani, CEO, Skycure '''''
([download
presentation](media:OWASP_IL_2013_10_Adi_Sharabani_Mobile_Threats.pdf‎ "wikilink")
| [watch
video](http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nJU98g1SdBM&list=SPA4gj-PiNukdr7SY4XKoF4xhb0XZYw-WI&index=12))

We all developed natural instincts when it comes to protecting our
physical space. We all know to look to the sides before crossing the
road, and we all have some capabilities to assess current risks and make
decisions accordingly. However, when it comes to using our mobile
devices in the cyber era, these instincts have not yet evolved. People
and organizations are at risk, and do not have an understanding how to
assess or mitigate them. On top of that, current protection solutions
provide inadequate protection against these threats. The organizational
need to support mobile devices for business related activity created a
huge gap in securing the organization. Adi Sharabani's keynote will
highlight some of these threats via a live demonstration of a mobile
hacking activity. The audience will be able to opt in for the demo,
reflecting how easy it is for a hacker to hack into remote devices.


<u>Speaker Bio</u>

Mr. Adi Sharabani is a world-class security expert and the CEO of
Skycure, a start-up that focuses on providing firewall solutions for
mobile devices. Formerly, Adi led the security of IBM software products.
He came to IBM through the Watchfire acquisition, a start-up company
which was a pioneer in the field of application security. Among his
roles, Adi built and led the Watchfire’s security group. Adi has written
many patents in the security space, and his works have been presented in
many known conferences such as BlackHat, RSA, OWASP, Innovate, Herzliya
Conference and many more; his presentations and keynotes are constantly
being ranked as best presentations of most conferences he presents at.
Adi is also a fellow at Prof. Yuval Ne’eman’s workshop. In his spare
time, Adi teaches at Ohel-Shem high school, and is a part of the vision
and implementation of the cyber-defense curriculum for high school
students, a vision that is now being implemented in Israel.


<u>Technical Level:</u> Introduction



# Track A

### Get Ready for the Next Big Wave of Attacks: Hacking of Leading CMS Systems

***Maty Siman, CTO, Checkmarx*** ([watch
video](http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=KIgMMLS8_Jc&list=SPA4gj-PiNukdr7SY4XKoF4xhb0XZYw-WI&index=3))

The flow of this talk is given by – you\! Before this talk, we emailed
the audience to provide us with their favorite WordPress plugins that
they would like to test for security. In a live demo, we assess the
security of the requested plugins. Previous similar trials that we
performed on WordPress showed that 30% of the top 50 most downloaded
plugins were vulnerable to common Web attacks. What will be the results
of this experiment?

As we’ll continue to show, assessing the security posture of a plugin is
only the hacker’s first step in mass attacks. As opposed to past mass
SQL Injection attacks which leveraged tools such as SQLMap, these next
wave of attacks do not focus on the site’s platform or customized
development code. Rather, these attacks leverage on the increasing
popularity of CMS platforms such as WordPress and Joomla. The maturity,
prevalence and market penetration of CMS platforms allow any marketing,
sales or HR individual to easily set up their own fully-operational
site. Accordingly, CMS apps are flourishing – and so are the
vulnerabilities in these apps.


<u>Speaker Bio</u>

Maty is the CTO and founder of Checkmarx. Maty has more than a decade of
experience in software development, IT security and source-code
analysis. An authoritative figure in application security, Maty is
regularly interviewed by the media on security-breaking news and
frequently speaks at various IT security conferences. Prior to founding
Checkmarx, Maty worked for two years at the Israeli Prime Minister’s
Office as a senior IT security expert and project manager. Prior to
that, he spent six years with the Israeli Defense Forces (IDF), where he
established and led a development team in the IDF’s Information Security
Center.


<u>Technical Level:</u> Intermediate



### Utilizing Popular Websites for Malicious Purposes Using RDI

***Daniel Chechik, Security Researcher, Trustwave SpiderLabs**''
***Anat Davidi, Security Researcher, Trustwave SpiderLabs**''
([download
presentation](Media:OWASP_IL_2013_10_Chechik_Davidi_Utilizing_Popular_Websites_for_Malicious_Purposes_Using_RDI.pdf "wikilink")
| [watch
video](http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=jUBC4qY0akg&list=SPA4gj-PiNukdr7SY4XKoF4xhb0XZYw-WI&index=4))‎

Reflected DOM Injection is a new attack vector first presented at the
DefCon 21 conference in July. We will explain the technique and show a
live demo where we use it to hide malicious code within popular and
trusted websites. For those of you who are interested in RDI but
couldn’t make it to DefCon, we are bringing the talk to you\!

The introduction of this session will briefly review the struggle
between malicious websites and security products. We will explain the
issues of hosting a malicious website and the techniques security
vendors use in order to block them. We will then present our new
technique to avoid detection and proceed to explain all parts of it
in-depth. A full demo of the attack from beginning to end will be
included. common and known services published by popular websites will
be used in order to dynamically construct an attack hosted for us by
these services. Finally, we will add a layer of defense to our attack,
and generate malicious code which will become practically invisible to
dynamic analysis engines and thus evade most of today's security engines
and technologies.


<u>Speaker Bio</u>

Daniel Chechik is a veteran security researcher at Trustwave's
SpiderLabs. Among other things, he specializes in malware analysis, web
exploits detection, Trojan and botnet detection and neutralizing and
defining security requirements for the Secure Web Gateway product. Prior
to that, Daniel served in a technological unit as a security specialist
in the IDF. During the service, Daniel specialized in CheckPoint
Firewall equipment, AntiVirus products and other IT security products.
Daniel, among other things, has spoken at the RSA conference, DefCon,
holds CEH and CCSE certificates and has a patent pending for 'Detecting
Malware Communication on an Infected Computing Device'.

Anat Davidi is a security researcher at Trustwave's SpiderLabs. Her role
includes vulnerability analysis, malware analysis and developing
detection logic for the Secure Web Gateway product. Prior to that, Anat
worked as a security consultant providing security reviews and
penetration tests for organizations in various business sectors, ranging
from banks and insurance companies to hi-tech corporations. Amongst
other things, Anat has spoken at the RSA conference, DefCon.


<u>Technical Level:</u> Intermediate



### Invisibility Purge - Manipulating Properties Of Invisible & Dormant Asp.Net Controls‎

***Shay Chen, CTO, Ernst & Young (Hacktics)***
([download
presentation](Media:OWASP_IL_2013_10_Shay_Chen_Invisible_Purge.pdf "wikilink")
| [watch
video](http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=tAQTMdNU5dA&list=SPA4gj-PiNukdr7SY4XKoF4xhb0XZYw-WI&index=5))

Server-Side Web Controls became popular components in modern web
application frameworks. In addition to the development benefits of these
components provide, they are also protected using a variety of security
mechanisms, including digital signatures, content access restrictions
and even invisibility. However, developers that use these components
improperly can expose the application to a variety of different attacks
that can be executed despite, and sometimes due to the existence of
security mechanisms. The presentation will demonstrate several new
methods that attackers can harness to bypass security mechanism,
manipulate server control properties and identify, enumerate and
activate events of dormant server web controls, in popular platforms
such as ASP.Net, JSF and Mono.


<u>Speaker Bio</u>

Shay Chen is the CTO of Hacktics, an advanced security center of Ernst &
Young.

As a victim of the law of familiarity, a decade of exposure to common
vulnerabilities was enough to shift his focus to abnormal hacking
methodologies and new attack vectors.

He is also a prominent blogger and researcher, and is responsible for
many security publications, including new application-level attacks,
testing methodologies and open source projects. As the co-author of the
platforms "Diviner", "SCIP" and "WAVSEP" he was involved in the
publication of several large-scale researches in the field of automated
security scanners.

Shay is an experienced speaker, has been instructing a variety of
information security courses for the past 8 years, and had multiple
appearances in international conferences, including Blackhat,
Hacktivity, AppSecUSA and others.


<u>Technical Level:</u> Advanced



### The ReFrameworker Android runtime manipulator – pentesting Android apps like a king ‎

***Erez Metula, Application Security Expert, AppSec Labs (Founder)***
([download
presentation](Media:OWASP_IL_2013_10_Erez_Metula_The_ReFrameworker_Android_runtime_manipulator.pdf "wikilink")
| [watch
video](http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mFW2ST4-b4s&list=SPA4gj-PiNukdr7SY4XKoF4xhb0XZYw-WI&index=6))

ReFrameworker is a new exiting addition to the AppUse pentest VM which
we just released at recent BlackHat USA, targeting Android applications.
With ReFrameworker, we can manipulate Android applications to make our
life as pentesters a lot more easier. Does the app you test insists to
be used only for a particular IMEI or phone number? Or does it break on
invalidated certificates when you try to SSL MitM it using a proxy? No
problem\! With ReFrameworker, you can just give a new behavior to any
runtime method you'd like, like disabling verifications, controlling
return values, and so on. Snooping on local SQL queries or encryption
keys? ReFrameworker gives you a proxy for local variables so you can
changes important or sensitive values on the fly. The idea is that we'd
built a new Android ROM for the sole purpose of pentesting Android apps,
loaded with hooks at important places inside the Dalvik runtime. During
this talk we'll witness the power of ReFrameworker, we'll learn how to
use it, how it was implemented and how it can be extended.


<u>Speaker Bio</u>

Erez Metula Author of the book "Managed Code Rootkits", is a world
renowned application security expert. Erez has extensive hands-on
experience performing security assessments, code reviews and secure
development trainings for worldwide organizations, and had previously
talked at international security conferences such as BlackHat, Defcon,
OWASP, RSA, SOURCE, CanSecWest and more. He is the founder of AppSec
Labs, where he focuses on advanced application security topics. Erez
holds an MSc in computer science and he is CISSP.


<u>Technical Level:</u> Advanced



### A Game of Pwns: Pwning iPhone application security assessment using the iNalyzer framework

***Chilik Tamir, Chief Scientist, AppSec Labs***
([download
presentation](Media:OWASP_IL_2013_10_Chilik_Tamir_GameOfPwns-Pwning_iOS_pentesting_with_iNalyzer.pdf‎ "wikilink")
| [watch
video](http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gJK6G7y7AvY&list=SPA4gj-PiNukdr7SY4XKoF4xhb0XZYw-WI&index=7))

iNalyzer is an open-source free to use pen-testing framework I have
recently updated for BlackHat USA, targeting iPhone applications. In the
following presentation I will present my latest research on a new
approach to performing security assessments of iOS applications
utilizing the iNalyzer. The presentation will include live demonstration
of using iNalyzer to transform a tedious black-box penetration testing
into an exciting gray-box effort. The talk will cover some of the
problems with testing iOS applications, and present a wider picture of
the testing process for different applications using iNalyzer, from the
point of view of the tester, and how to handle the difficulties that may
ensue.

  - You will learn how to utilize iNalyzer to bind the power of regular
    web vulnerability scanner - such as Zap, Burp or AppScan into the
    exciting world of iOS penetration testing.
  - You will learn how to fill in the gaps and use iNalyzer in your IDA
    reversing effort when testing.
  - You will learn how to manipulate iPhone applications to make our
    life as pen-testers a lot easier using iNalyzer.


<u>Speaker Bio</u>

Chilik Tamir is an information security expert with over two decades of
experience in training, research, development, testing and consulting in
the field of applicative information security for clients in the fields
of finance, security, government offices and corporations. His latest
research - the iOS iNalyzer is an open-source iOS application
Penetration Testing Dashboard. Among his previous publications you will
find AppUse – a testing environment for Android applications developed
together with Erez Metula; Belch – an automatic tool for analysis and
testing of binary protocols such as Flex and Java-Serialization; Chilik
is an experienced security trainer and speaker with previous talks and
training in security conferences such as BlackHat USA, HITB Amsterdam,
OWASP Israel as well as training in cooperations such as Intel, HP,
Cisco, Amdocs, Verint, RedBend and others. He is the Chief Scientist at
AppSec Labs, where he acts as head of R\&D and innovation. Chilik holds
an Biomedical Engineering B.Sc. degree.


<u>Technical Level:</u> Advanced



### Automatic trust based segregation for content providers on mobile devices

***Oren Poleg, IDC***
([download
presentation](Media:OWASP_IL_2013_10_Oren_Peleg_Automatic_trust_based_segregation_for_content_providers.pdf "wikilink")
| [watch
video](http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=QNqcC_gS6Y0&list=SPA4gj-PiNukdr7SY4XKoF4xhb0XZYw-WI&index=8))

In this work we have designed and developed a modification to the
Android Content Providers that allows us to impose access restrictions
on the sensitive data items they contain (such as contacts, calendar
events) .

We have developed lightweight solution that is compatible with the
current Android design (so it can be easily integrated with the current
Android implementation) that creates separation between different types
of sensitive data, also separating them from the non-sensitive
information in Android content providers. We allow the device owner to
view the data in a unified manner, while 3rd party applications will be
allowed access only to content created by them or that they were granted
permission to view.

User interaction is not required for the security decisions. Instead, we
are defining trust relationship between the data and the applications,
in which the owner of the data can delegate access permissions to the
applications.

This approach will enable organization to store sensitive information on
the device content providers, allow the user to easily access it from
the organizational applications as well as from system applications
while preventing its leakage through other 3rd party applications While
developed for Android, the concept can be implemented on other mobile
devices, such as iPhone and Windows Phone.


<u>Speaker Bio</u>

Oren Poleg is a mobile platforms expert, with more than 10 years in the
mobile platforms space. As a team leader in (the Former) Sun
Microsystems, Oren was responsible to the integration of Java VM into
mobile devices, later to be followed with and research of smart phone
infrastructures Currently Oren is a working as a Consultant, dealing
with Android Devices, Smart TVs and Network Security.


<u>Technical Level:</u> Intermediate/Advanced


\= Track B =

### Web Application Forensics

***Renana Friedlich, Forensic Department Leader, Ernst and Young
(Hacktics)***

Most organizations are not aware of successful application-level
attacks, until it's too late. Application penetration tests don't
provide information on attacks that ALREADY occurred, on attacks are
CURRENTLY in progress, on failed attempts, or even on the actual impact.
Organizations usually rely on security products such as WAF and IDS to
locate hacking incidents, but what about attacks that slipped pass the
WAF? What about attacks with a pattern that the IDS did not recognize?
What about organizations that implemented these products too late, or
not at all? That's where Web Application Proactive Forensics comes in -
A collection of detailed methodologies for locating evidence of attacks
that were performed and/or exploited, including attacks listed in OWASP
testing guide, WASC and CWE.


<u>Speaker Bio</u>

Renana Friedlich is the Forensic Department Leader at Hacktics, an
advanced security center of EY. Renana specializes in forensic
investigations, developing incident response, malware assessments, and
escorting start-up companies in implementing forensic methodologies into
their products. Prior to working at Hacktics, she served at the
intelligence corps for seven years, and has over nine years of
experience in the information security field. In recent years, Renana
was a frequent speaker in the government sector and had multiple
appearances in public conferences, including OWASP, annual risk
management conferences, and universities. She also regularly instructs
forensic and incident response courses in universities and clients from
various industries.


<u>Technical Level:</u> Intermediate



### STDD - The protection you REALLY need

''*' Nir Valtman, R\&D CSO, Retalix **''
*** Alex Linder, Solution Architect, Retalix '''''
([download
presentation](Media:OWASP_IL_2013_10_Nir_Valtman_STDD.pdf "wikilink"))‎

Today in the agile world, many streams based on Acceptance Test Driven
Development (ATDD). In this presentation we are going to demonstrate how
to reuse this concept in context of security. In addition, this
presentation includes common scenarios from attacker's point of view as
well as the defender should think. Needless to mention, we have many
demos...


<u>Speaker Bio</u>

Nir is employed in Retalix as R\&D CSO. Before this position he worked
as chief security architect, senior technology consultant, application
security consultant, system security consultant and a technological
trainer. As part of his positions, Nir didn't only consulting, but also
performed hands-on activities in various fields, e.g. hardening,
penetration testing and development for personal\\internal
applications.
Nir has a BSc in computer science but his knowledge is based mainly on
cowboy learning and information sharing with the techno-oriented
communities.
Blog: <http://www.valtman.org>

Alex is a technology geek, likes to research and play with new stuff.
Alex is a highly experienced Solution Architect specializing in
Software, middleware and APIs.
Alex has more than 14 years of experience and performed vast roles in
the Israeli market such as VP Professional services, Group manager,
Solution Architect, Dev team leader and Senior consultant.
Currently working as a solution architect of large scale R\&D firm with
cutting edge technologies.
Blog: <http://linderalex.blogspot.co.il/>


<u>Technical Level:</u> Intermediate / Advanced



### Spam, Death Threats, and Other Abuses of Online Communities

***Avi Douglen, Security Architect, Independant***
([download
presentation](Media:OWASP_IL_2013_10_Avi_Douglan_Spam-DeathThreats-Abuse-OnlineCommunities.pdf‎ "wikilink"))‎

Many contemporary websites are based on so-called “User Generated
Content” (aka UGC). Furthermore, many sites oriented around a community
of users enable users to interact with each other, via the site. Sites
like Wikipedia and StackOverflow allow users to freely edit pages
visible to all users, popular discussion forums are based on continuous
postings of content by users, and social networks such as Facebook
encourage users to constantly add their own rich data to the site for
others’ consumption.

Aside from the usual web attacks common to all user input on websites,
such as XSS and SQL Injection, there are some forms of attacks or abuse
that are specific to sites such as these. Some of them are purely
technical, some of them are social in nature and just take advantage of
the available technology. These are often exacerbated by the scope and
huge amount of traffic to these sites, and take advantage of the network
effect.

The talk will be based in a large part on the speaker’s experience on
the Stack Exchange network of sites, but will also compare to the models
prevalent on other popular sites. We will discuss some of the aspects
particular to these platforms, and show how even the more “boring” of
these attacks can sometimes be interesting depending on the situation.
We will also see some of the stranger happenings that occur on a large
site. Finally, we will discuss and compare some of the different models
that these huge websites use to limit the damage. We will of course
focus on what is both these sites’ biggest weakness, and greatest
strength - the community.


<u>Speaker Bio</u>

Avi Douglen had a CISSP before it was popular, but he is not a hipster.
Avi is a high-end, independent security architect and developer, and has
been designing, developing and testing secure applications, and leading
development teams in building secure products, for over 15 years. Avi is
also a Community Moderator (volunteer basis) on Stack Exchange’s
fantastic Information Security site (http://security.stackexchange.com),
sister site to Stack Overflow. As a moderator, and as an active user on
several other Stack Exchange sites, he has spent a lot of time handling
these types of attacks, and has had the opportunity to see up close,
what works, what doesn’t, and what can scale to millions of users.


<u>Technical Level:</u> Introductory



### Delivering Security in Continuous Delivery Environment ‎

**'' Yaniv Simsolo, Senior Consultant, Comsec Consulting**''
([download
presentation](Media:OWASP_IL_2013_10_Yaniv_Simsolo_Delivering_Security_in_CD_Environments.pdf "wikilink")
| [watch
video](http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=D5dyf13RbCU&list=SPA4gj-PiNukdr7SY4XKoF4xhb0XZYw-WI&index=9))

Moving from traditional development environment to Agile environment,
creates many a challenge to the security of the organization and
developed system. Moving from Agile development environment towards
Continuous Delivery environment ups the stakes. We will venture in to
the challenges of delivering security in Continuous Delivery
environment, and test whether in-depth security is achievable. Relying
on industry evidences, a unique approach to the evolvement of security
under Continuous Delivery development environment will be presented.


<u>Speaker Bio</u>

Yaniv Simsolo, CISSP, Senior IT Security Professional. A consultant in
application security from 2004, and an expert of security of compound
and enterprise scale systems.


<u>Technical Level:</u> Intermediate



### Designing a national defense strategy for DDoS applications and volume attacks

'''''Mirit Kagarlitsky, Head of System Analysis, Israeli National Cyber
Bureau '''''

DDoS attacks exploit vulnerabilities in different protocol stack layers,
from the application layer and downward. These attacks undermine the
availability of various services, some of which transcend the local
interest of the compromised organization, bearing broader consequences.
Designing a national defense strategy for DDoS attacks has advantages,
since the state has both the interest and the capacity to devise
large-scale technological solutions of security from targeted attacks on
critical services as well as from cumulative damage in this realm. The
problem is that there is a wide spectrum of solutions and possible
network locations for state intervention: services entry point, ISPs,
cloud-based approaches and more; every solution should be analyzed from
a national standpoint. Our work examines when and where should the state
take action in the realm, ranging from the individual organization to
the ISP level. We also suggest how its accumulated benefit should be
assessed in order to evaluate the overall effectiveness of the national
strategy.


<u>Speaker Bio</u>

Mirit Kagarlitsky holds a B.Sc. in physics and mathematics from the
Hebrew University in Jerusalem and is in the process of completion of
M.Sc. in Statistics from Tel Aviv University. She has vast experience
with operations research and system analysis in various fields, as an
analyst and as a team leader. Today she work as the head of system
analysis in the Israeli National Cyber Bureau.


<u>Technical Level:</u> Introduction



### Enhancing Web Application Defense Using Big Data

''''' Or Katz, Principal Security Researcher, Akamai Technologies '''''
([watch
video](http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rNecoaL78Sw&list=SPA4gj-PiNukdr7SY4XKoF4xhb0XZYw-WI&index=10))

In recent years Big Data has become a commonly used technology in many
products, in this presentation I will unveil practical examples on how
we can improve web application defenses by using Big Data. Using Big
Data enables us to combine web application filter triggers from multiple
data sources. Big data analysis contributes to the improvement and
enhances defense tactics. In this presentation I will show some examples
such as:

  - SQLi – detecting malicious users and their level of maliciousness
  - Web Scraping – expose scrapers that fly under the radar and what is
    their target information
  - False positives reduction – using Big Data in order to learn how to
    tune your configuration


<u>Speaker Bio</u>

Or Katz has vast expertise in Web Application Firewall technology,
working in market leading web application firewall vendors as a web
application security researcher. Mr. Katz is a board member in OWASP
Israel chapter, frequent speaker in the chapter conferences and he was
also responsible for leading the OWASP Top 10 Hebrew translation
project. Mr. Katz also published several innovative white papers on web
applications defensive techniques.


<u>Technical Level:</u> Intermediate



### From Obscurity to Pop Culture - Evolution of Application Security ‎

**'' Irene Abezgauz, VP Product Management, Quotium**'' ([download
presentation](Media:OWASP_IL_2013_10_Irene_Abezgauz_Evolution_of_Application_Security.pdf‎ "wikilink")
| [watch
video](http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ASZvPxGHZ5g&list=SPA4gj-PiNukdr7SY4XKoF4xhb0XZYw-WI&index=11))

In 1998 the New York Times website was hacked. According to various news
sources, the site underwent a thorough security test just two years
before and at that point it became clear that 'it might not be
sufficient'. Fifteen years later, application security trends talk about
APTs, Agile SDLCs and Security Products being commoditized. In this
lecture we review the evolution of application security in the past
decade and a half. Examining technology and aspects of security
management from the early days of OWASP foundation to present day mobile
application security testing as part of the development lifecycle.


<u>Speaker Bio</u>

Irene has ten years of experience in information and application
security. Focused on application security penetration testing and
research she is a builder and breaker of things. She is the Product
Manager of Seeker™, the new generation of automatic application security
testing, and head of security research activities at Seeker Security
(Quotium). Ms. Abezgauz has discovered numerous vulnerabilities and
published advisories related to products of leading vendors.


<u>Technical Level:</u> Introduction