## The presentation

![Owasp_logo_normal.jpg](Owasp_logo_normal.jpg
"Owasp_logo_normal.jpg")The OWASP Live CD is a project that collects
some of the best open source security projects in a single environment.
Web developers, testers and security professionals can boot from this
Live CD and have access to a full security testing suite. The Live CD
also contains documentation and an interactive learning environment to
enhance users web application security knowledge. This presentation will
cover the current state of the OWASP Live CD specifically the migration
to an Ubuntu Linux base, the addition of static analysis tools and
development of an additional educational environment. Time permitting, a
live demonstration of the OWASP Live CD will be conducted. The OWASP
Live CD is a project of the Open Web Application Security Project
(OWASP) and is free for commercial or non-commercial use. More
information is available at:
<http://www.owasp.org/index.php/Category:OWASP_Live_CD_Project>

## The speakers

Matt Tesauro has worked in web application development and security
since 2000. He has worn many different hats, from developer to DBA to
System Administrator to Penetration Tester. Matt also taught graduate
and undergraduate classes on web application development and XML at
Texas A\&M University. Currently, he's focused on web application
security and developing a Secure SDLC for the Texas Education Agency
(TEA). Outside work, he is the project lead for the OWASP Live CD, a
member of the OWASP Global Projects Committee, part of the local OWASP
chapters leadership and the membership directory of ISSA of Austin,
Texas. Matt Tesauro has a B.S. in Economics and a M.S in Management
Information Systems from Texas A\&M University. He is also has the
CISSP, CEH (Certified Ethical Hacker), RHCE (Red Hat Certified
Engineer), and Linux+ certifications.

Brad Causey is an active member of the security and forensics community
world-wide. Brad tends to focus his time on Web Application security as
it applies to global and enterprise arenas. He is currently employed at
a major international financial institution as a security analyst. Brad
is the VP of the OWASP Alabama chapter, a member of the OWASP Global
Projects committee and a large contributor to the OWASP Live CD. He is
also the President of the International Information Systems Forensics
Association chapter in Alabama. Brad is an avid author and writer with
hundreds of publications and several books. Brad currently holds
certifications in the following arenas: MCSA, MCDBA, MCSE, MCT, MCP,
GBLC, GGSC-100, C |EH, CIFI, CCNA,IT Project Management+, Security+, A+,
Network+, CISSP, CGSP.

[Category:OWASP_AppSec_DC_09](Category:OWASP_AppSec_DC_09 "wikilink")
[Category:OWASP_Conference_Presentations](Category:OWASP_Conference_Presentations "wikilink")