### Membership update

Total Number of Individual Memberships: 593 New Memberships in
September: 80

Renewals in September: 15

Lost memberships in September (did not renew): 208 â€“ due to NY Conf.
Memberships

September Income from Individual Memberships: $4750

Portion allocated to local chapters: $1360

September Profit from Individual Memberships: $3390

Total Number of Organization Memberships: 29

New Memberships in September: 0

Renewals in September: 2 (Harris Connect, Art of Defence)

Lost memberships in September (did not renew): 1 (Protivity)

September Income from Corporate Memberships: $7000

Portion allocated to local chapters: $2000

September Profit from Corporate Memberships: $5000

**Total Profit for September: $8390**

### Board level topics

  - ISC2-OWASP joint venture proposal
  - OWASP Governance: OWASP Board's renewal
      - 6 months elections up to nine members,
      - Three Board Members' elections every six months.
  - Summit 2009 in AppSec DC
    <http://www.owasp.org/index.php/Summit_2009>
      - Proposal to have OWASP Board members to be in AppSec DC one day
        earlier to have an internal OWASP Board meeting
  - Proposal to create New committee
      - OWASP Technology & Web Frameworks Committee
  - Matt Tesauro requests the approval of the board to research possible
    hosting options for a OWASP Archive of projects
      - Archive would hold items such as project releases, conference
        videos, etc.
      - Host under consideration is the [Open Source
        Lab](http://osuosl.org/)
      - Question: Is there any additional hosting requirements?
      - Deliverable: A proposal listing hosting options and any
        associated costs
      - More info on a [Google
        doc](https://docs.google.com/a/owasp.org/Doc?docid=0ATb3QwFMHCXrZGdubjI3ZHNfMWYyOThxY2Zu&hl=en)

### Update from: Global Projects Committee

  - Honorary memberships to be given to "active" OWASP participants
    (chapter leader, project participants, etc.). Chapter and projects
    committees to submit proposal for persons to be given membership.
      - See the [OWASP Projects
        Dashboard](OWASP_Projects_Dashboard "wikilink") with all the
        OWASP Projects,
      - [Email/draft to be sent to all OWASP
        leaders](http://docs.google.com/a/owasp.org/Doc?id=dcn8962c_51ftpmj2g7).
  - Spreading [OWASP Project Details
    Tab](:Template:OWASP_Project_Identification_Tab "wikilink") through
    ALL OWASP Projects.
      - ALL the projects with defined leadership already HAVE the GPC
        Project Details Tab - Check out ["OWASP Projects
        Dashboard"](OWASP_Project_Details_Table "wikilink"),
          - Methodology to fill in the referred tab?
          - Methodology to link the tab to each project?
  - New Assessment Criteria
      - [Pravir's assessment
        diagram](http://www.owasp.org/index.php/File:OWASP-Assessment_Diag_v2.png)
        - Note that this is not related to 'Project Releases' but to
        'Project Health'
          - We need to create a separate diagram to help our project
            leaders to understand the desired workflow for Releases
            (which go from Alpha, to Beta, to Stable)
      - Modification of Assessment Criteria v2 (ACv2)
          - Review of [email
            templates](http://docs.google.com/a/owasp.org/Doc?docid=0ATb3QwFMHCXrZGdubjI3ZHNfMGhuZmJxOXA3&hl=en)
            to reflect any changes from above.
  - ["OWASP Mini-Summit 2009"](:Summit_2009 "wikilink")/[:OWASP AppSec
    DC 2009](:OWASP_AppSec_DC_2009 "wikilink")
      - [Brad's
        PPT](https://docs.google.com/a/owasp.org/present/edit?id=0Ae9M2vJFBkqfZGZjOGJoY3dfMmM3cHI0OGN6&hl=en).

[GPC Mins](:Category:GPC_Meetings "wikilink") from the history of
meetings

### Update from: Global Education Committee

### Update from: Global Chapters Committee

### Update from: Global Industry Committee