become a [Member or Annual Chapter
Sponsor(s)](http://www.owasp.org/index.php/Membership#Categories_of_Membership_.26_Supporters).

## OWASP Ireland-Limerick Board

Should you have a question about the local chapter, would like to get
more involved contact ANY of the following people below


  - **President** [Marian
    Ventuneac](mailto:marian.ventuneac@owasp.org)
  - **Vice President** TBD
  - **Secretary** TBD


**OWASP Ireland-Limerick**
Address - TBD
<paypal>Ireland-Limerick</paypal>

## OWASP Ireland Limerick 2013 Events



## OWASP Ireland Limerick Chapter Meeting


**When:** 21/02/2013 7:00pm - 9:00pm

**Where:** Limerick City Council, City Hall, Merchants Quay

**Sponsors:** **Genworth Financial**

This free event is open to all participants with an interest in
application security.
<span style="color: red; text-decoration:"> Registration is required -
if you are planning to attend please RSVP at
<http://owasp-limerick-february-2013.eventbrite.com/> </span>

For ISACA and (ISC)² members: This event qualifies for free CPE
credits/hours.

**AGENDA**

19:00 - 19:05 **OWASP Limerick/Munster Chapter - Introduction, Agenda
and Speakers**

19:10 - 20:00 **Zombie Browsers, spiced with Rootkit Extensions** -
presented by Balázs Zoltán

**Abstract:** As malicious browser extensions currently are not detected
by antivirus products, they are able to do enormous harm - not only by
compromising one’s personal online activities, personal data and
accounts, but even his/her business data. Hardly any anti-malware
product offers real protection against these attacks, and even mobile
phones might be vulnerable.

**Presenter:** Balázs Zoltán (OSCP, C |HFI, CISSP, CPTS, MCP) is an
ITSEC consultant at Deloitte. From 2006-2010 Zoltán worked as an IT
Security Expert at Erste Bank Hungary, and from 2010 he works as an IT
Security team leader, at Erste. On ITSEC conferences he likes to present
about malwares, IPv6, pass-the-hash, browser malware.

**Download:** [Zombie
Browsers](https://www.owasp.org/images/c/c5/OWASPIreland-Limerick_20130221_Zombie_Browsers.pdf)


20:00 - 20:10 **OWASP Limerick/Munster Chapter Raffle**
\* Free ticket for upcoming OWASP Limerick AppSec Training Day

  - Two representative Information Security books




20:10 - 20:50 **Malware (zero-day) Analysis in an Operational
Environment** - presented by Richard Costelloe

**Abstract:** This presentation reviews a response-methodology to a
multi-stage, 'zero-day' malware attack against a corporate
information-systems network. Included in this analysis are detailed
explanations of evasive techniques such as social-engineering,
spear-phishing, SMTP spoofing, HTTP and JavaScript obfuscation, binary
code-packing, password and data harvesting, data encryption and
exfiltration, file-droppers, process-injection and bot-nets. Included
will be an overview of defensive-methodologies and processes such as
system and network hardening and monitoring, data de-obfuscation,
decoding and decryption, static and dynamic analysis of malware code and
binaries and forensic best practises.

**Presenter:** Richard Costelloe (MA, CISSP, CEH) is an
Information-Security professional currently employed by Murex Dublin
(Enterprise Risk Management), focusing on Information Security
governance, compliance and policy development, risk-management, staff
training & education, data-leaks, working with IT teams for
system-hardening and penetration-testing and software-development teams
with code-reviews and application-security audits for Murex’s Java/C++
products.

**Download:** [Malware
Analysis](https://www.owasp.org/images/7/7e/OWASPIreland-Limerick_20130221_Malware_Analysis.pdf)


20:50 - 21:00 **Networking/Socialising**


## Past Events

**2012 Meetings**

[OWASP_Limerick_Day_2012](OWASP_Limerick_Day_2012 "wikilink")

[OWASP_Limerick_July_2012](OWASP_Limerick_July_2012 "wikilink")

[OWASP_Limerick_February_2012](OWASP_Limerick_February_2012 "wikilink")

**2011 Meetings**

[OWASP_Limerick_October2011](OWASP_Limerick_October2011 "wikilink")

[OWASP_Limerick_March_2011](OWASP_Limerick_March_2011 "wikilink")



__NOTOC__ <headertabs />

[Category:Ireland](Category:Ireland "wikilink")