## Web Application Security and Search Engines

Google Hacking represents a growing threat to Web applications and the
enterprises who own them. However, Google Hacking is not the only danger
posed to Web applications by search engines. In recent years, multiple
attack techniques have been devised to abuse the power of search
engines. These include automated Google Hacking, Google Worms (such as
the recent mass SQL Injection incidents), malware distribution, site
masking and techniques for using search engines as an attack bot (Search
of Death). This session will discuss and demonstrate various search
engine attack techniques and how to mitigate them

## Bio

Amichai Shulman is co-founder and CTO of Imperva, where he heads the
Application Defense Center (ADC), Imperva's internationally recognized
research organization focused on security and compliance. Mr. Shulman
regularly lectures at trade conferences and delivers monthly eSeminars.
The press draws on Mr. Shulman's expertise to comment on breaking news,
including security breaches, mitigation techniques, and related
technologies. Under his direction, the ADC has been credited with the
discovery of serious vulnerabilities in commercial Web application and
database products, including Oracle, IBM, and Microsoft. Prior to
Imperva, Mr. Shulman was founder and CTO of Edvice Security Services
Ltd., a consulting group that provided application and database security
services to major financial institutions, including Web and database
penetration testing and security strategy, design and implementation.
Mr. Shulman served in the Israel Defense Forces, where he led a team
that identified new computer attack and defense techniques. He has B.Sc
and Masters Degrees in Computer Science from the Technion, Israel
Institute of Technology.