*Sent to owasp-all mailing list on 23th Feb 2007* __NOEDITSECTION__

## OWASP Newsletter \#5 (23 Feb-07)

Hello, due to hyper busy schedule this edition of the OWASP newsletter
is delivered a little bit later than normal (thx Mike for helping out).

As always, if you have any content to add to the next edtion, feel free
to add it directly to its WIKI page ([OWASP Newsletter
6](OWASP_Newsletter_6 "wikilink")).

Finally, if you are a regular contributor you will notice a couple
changes on the WIKI (for example the location of the EDIT button), this
is due to the recent upgrade to the latest version of MediaWiki.

Dinis Cruz

Chief OWASP Evangelist

## Featured Item: OWASP Conference Europe, Italy, Milan, May 16th-17th

The organization of the [6th OWASP AppSec Conference - Italy
2007](6th_OWASP_AppSec_Conference_-_Italy_2007 "wikilink") is now
officially under way.

OWASP is soliciting both experiential and research papers for this
conference as we did last year for the OWASP AppSec 2006 conference in
Belgium, so if you want to do a presentation see the [Call For
Papers](6th_OWASP_AppSec_Conference_-_Italy_2007/CFP "wikilink").

Also posted are the [details about the one-day training
courses](6th_OWASP_AppSec_Conference_-_Italy_2007/Training "wikilink")
which are offered on May 15th, the day prior to the conference.

## Featured Project: OWASP Tiger

Another AoC project, OWASP Tiger is a new tool created from the ashes of
the ASP.NET tools/PoC created by Dinis Cruz (see \[OWASP Autumn of Code
2006 - Projects: Owasp .Net Tools\] for more details).

OWASP Tiger is a Windows application originally intented to be used for
automating the process of testing variuous known ASP.NET security issues
in hosted environments. However, it is much more versatile than that: it
can help you construct and send a HTTP requests, receive and analyze the
responses, match them against a set of conditions to produce alerts,
notifications that something is wrong with the application(s) or
service(s) being tested.

For more details (and to download it) see the [OWASP
Tiger](OWASP_Tiger "wikilink") project page, and read the [Tiger User
Manual](Tiger_User_Manual "wikilink")

## Featured Project OWASP Testing Project

**The OWASP Testing Guide v2 is now published** [Matteo
Meucci](User:Mmeucci "wikilink") (as part of his [AoC
project](OWASP_Autumn_of_Code_2006_-_Projects:_Testing_Guide "wikilink"))
has just published the latest version of Testing guide which:

  - you can read it online on the [Testing Guide v2
    wiki](http://www.owasp.org/index.php/OWASP_Testing_Guide_v2_Table_of_Contents)
  - or download the Guide in [Adobe PDF
    format](http://www.owasp.org/index.php/Image:OWASP_Testing_Guide_v2_pdf.zip)
    or in [Ms Doc
    format](http://www.owasp.org/index.php/Image:OWASP_Testing_Guide_v2_doc.zip)

If you have something good to say about this guide, please add a comment
to the [The OWASP Testing Guide
'Quotes'](http://www.owasp.org/index.php/Testing_Guide_Quotes) page

## Latest additions to the WIKI

#### New Pages

  - [OWASP Tiger](OWASP_Tiger "wikilink") and [Tiger User
    Manual](Tiger_User_Manual "wikilink")
  - [6th OWASP AppSec Conference - Italy
    2007/Training](6th_OWASP_AppSec_Conference_-_Italy_2007/Training "wikilink")
    and [6th OWASP AppSec Conference - Italy
    2007/CFP](6th_OWASP_AppSec_Conference_-_Italy_2007/CFP "wikilink")
  - [Signing jar files with
    jarsigner](Signing_jar_files_with_jarsigner "wikilink")
  - [PRNG permanent compromise
    attack](PRNG_permanent_compromise_attack "wikilink"), [PRNG state
    compromise extension
    attack](PRNG_state_compromise_extension_attack "wikilink"), [PRNG
    direct cryptanalytic
    attack](PRNG_direct_cryptanalytic_attack "wikilink") and [Java
    overview](Java_overview "wikilink")
  - [Session Fixation
    Protection](Session_Fixation_Protection "wikilink")
  - [Poland](Poland "wikilink") (New Chapter)
  - [Testing Guide Quotes](Testing_Guide_Quotes "wikilink")

#### Updated pages

  - [OWASP JBroFuzz](OWASP_JBroFuzz "wikilink")
  - [Unvalidated Input](Unvalidated_Input "wikilink")
  - [Command Injection](Command_Injection "wikilink")
  - [Session Fixation](Session_Fixation "wikilink")
  - [OWASP Java Table of
    Contents](OWASP_Java_Table_of_Contents "wikilink")
      - [Password length &
        complexity](Password_length_%26_complexity "wikilink")
      - [Preventing SQL Injection in
        Java](Preventing_SQL_Injection_in_Java "wikilink")
  - [Web Application Penetration
    Testing](Web_Application_Penetration_Testing "wikilink")
      - [Testing for Error Code](Testing_for_Error_Code "wikilink")
      - [Testing for Application
        Discovery](Testing_for_Application_Discovery "wikilink")
      - [Testing for Web Application
        Fingerprint](Testing_for_Web_Application_Fingerprint "wikilink")
      - [Testing for Brute
        Force](Testing_for_Brute_Force_\(OWASP-AT-004\) "wikilink")
      - [Testing for infrastructure configuration
        management](Testing_for_infrastructure_configuration_management_\(OWASP-CM-003\) "wikilink")
      - [Testing for DB
        Listener](Testing_for_DB_Listener_\(OWASP-CM-002\) "wikilink")
      - [Testing for Bypassing Authentication
        Schema](Testing_for_Bypassing_Authentication_Schema_\(OWASP-AT-005\) "wikilink")
      - [Testing for Default or Guessable User
        Account](Testing_for_Default_or_Guessable_User_Account_\(OWASP-AT-003\) "wikilink")
      - [Handling E-Commerce
        Payments](Handling_E-Commerce_Payments "wikilink")
      - [Appendix A: Testing
        Tools](Appendix_A:_Testing_Tools "wikilink")
  - [Phoenix/Tools](Phoenix/Tools "wikilink")
  - [PHP CSRF Guard](PHP_CSRF_Guard "wikilink")
  - [Denver January 2007
    meeting](Denver_January_2007_meeting "wikilink")

#### New Documents & Presentations from chapters

Final (revised) version of the Testing Guide:

  - [OWASP Testing Guide v2
    doc.zip](:Image:OWASP_Testing_Guide_v2_doc.zip "wikilink") or [OWASP
    Testing Guide v2
    pdf.zip](:Image:OWASP_Testing_Guide_v2_pdf.zip "wikilink")

From the last Israeli chapter meeting:

  - [Source Code Analysis and Application Security - Cheating the
    Maze](media:OWASP_IL_Source_Code_Analysis_and_Application_Security.pdf "wikilink")
    - Maty Siman, Founder & CTO, [Checkmarx](http://www.checkmarx.com/)
  - [Security Implications of .Net 3.0 and the Windows Communication
    Foundation (WCF)](media:OWASP_IL_WCF_Security.pdf "wikilink") -
    Emmanuel Cohen-Yashar (Manu), Senior .NET technology consultant,
    [Sela Group](http://www.sela.co.il)
  - [Analysis of the Universal XSS PDF vulnerability - Cause, Solutions
    and Fun
    Stuff](media:OWASP_IL_The_Universal_XSS_PDF_Vulnerability.pdf "wikilink")
    - Ofer Shezaf, CTO, [Breach Security](http://www.breach.com), Leader
    of OWASP IL

#### Latest Blog entries

  - [The (UK) Computer misuse Act could ban distribution of security
    tools](http://blogs.owasp.org/eoinkeary/2007/02/21/the-uk-computer-misuse-act-could-ban-distribution-of-security-tools//)
  - [Sanboxes on OLPC and WMF,
    MAF](http://blogs.owasp.org/diniscruz/2007/02/20/sanboxes-on-olpc-and-wmf-maf/)
  - [Chapter
    Democrazy](http://blogs.owasp.org/seba/2007/02/19/chapter-democrazy/)
  - [Gartner smell the
    bacon/tofu\!\!\!\!](http://blogs.owasp.org/eoinkeary/2007/02/19/gartner-smell-the-bacontofu/)
  - [UAC not a security
    feature](http://blogs.owasp.org/diniscruz/2007/02/15/uac-not-a-security-feature/)
  - [The game is heating
    up](http://blogs.owasp.org/dacort/2007/02/14/the-game-is-heating-up/)
  - [HTTP Cookie Analysis
    Tool](http://blogs.owasp.org/dacort/2007/02/02/http-cookie-analysis-tool/)
  - [OWASP Blogâ€™s
    Update](http://blogs.owasp.org/mike/2007/02/04/owasp-blogs-update/)
  - [Interesting
    Article](http://blogs.owasp.org/mike/2007/02/12/interesting-article/)
  - [Version 0.10](http://blogs.owasp.org/orizon/2007/02/05/version-010/)
    and [First public
    release](http://blogs.owasp.org/orizon/2007/02/06/8/) (Orizon)

#### OWASP Community

  - May 10 (18:00h) - [Belgium chapter meeting](Belgium "wikilink")
  - Apr 12 (18:00h) - [Netherlands chapter
    meeting](Netherlands "wikilink")
  - Mar 22 (18:00h) - [London chapter meeting](London "wikilink")
  - Mar 21-22 -
    [Belgium@InfoSecurity](Belgium#OWASP_Top_10_2007_Update_.28Infosecurity_Belgium.2C_21_.26_.2622_Mar_2007.29 "wikilink")
  - Mar 7 (18:30h) - [Kansas City chapter
    meeting](Kansas_City "wikilink")
  - Mar 6 (18:30h) - [Philadelphia chapter
    meeting](Philadelphia "wikilink")
  - Mar 6 (18:00h) - [Melbourne chapter meeting](Melbourne "wikilink")
  - Feb 28 (18:00h) - [Seattle chapter meeting](Seattle "wikilink")
  - Feb 27 (18:00h) - [Edmonton chapter meeting](Edmonton "wikilink")
  - Feb 22 (18:30h) - [Helsinki chapter meeting](Helsinki "wikilink")
  - Feb 22 (18:00h) - [London chapter meeting](London "wikilink")
  - Feb 19 (18:00h) - [Rochester chapter meeting](Rochester "wikilink")

#### Application Security News

  - **Feb 21 - OWASP Top 10 2007 rc1 feedback**

<!-- end list -->

  -
    Lots of feedback on the new OWASP Top 10. See e.g. on [PCI DSS
    blog](http://datasecurity.wordpress.com/2007/02/05/owasp-top-10-for-2007/)
    with some interesting comments and of course Sylvan von Stuppe's
    comments on the [OWASP Top 10
    RC1](http://www.owasp.org/index.php/Top_10_2007) can be found
    [here](http://sylvanvonstuppe.blogspot.com/2007/02/owasp-top-10-2007-update-rc1-a7-a8.html)(A7-A8),
    [here](http://sylvanvonstuppe.blogspot.com/2007/02/owasp-top-10-2007-update-rc1-a5-a6.html)(A5-A6),
    [here](http://sylvanvonstuppe.blogspot.com/2007/02/owasp-top-10-2007-update-rc1-a3-a4.html)(A3-A4)
    and
    [here](http://sylvanvonstuppe.blogspot.com/2007/01/owasp-top-10-2007-update-rc1-a1-a2.html)
    (A1-A2). Last change to review the document prior to February 28th
    and provide feedback to the
    [owasp-topten@lists.owasp.org](http://lists.owasp.org/mailman/listinfo/owasp-topten)
    mail list.

<!-- end list -->

  - **Feb 21 - [Serious Flaw in Google Desktop Prompts
    Patch](http://blog.washingtonpost.com/securityfix/2007/02/serious_flaw_in_google_desktop.html)**

<!-- end list -->

  -
    "Search engine giant Google has issued an update for people running
    its powerful Desktop software. Researchers had demonstrated a
    potentially devastating security hole in the software that could
    allow bad guys to snoop on users' computers or even to install
    additional software."

<!-- end list -->

  - **Feb 05 - [Sammy 'MySpace' KamKar Pleads Guilty in
    Court](http://www.scmagazine.com.au/news/45262,myspace-superworm-creator-sentenced-to-probation-community-service.aspx)**

<!-- end list -->

  -
    "The man responsible for unleashing what is believed to be the first
    self-propagating cross-site scripting worm has pleaded guilty in Los
    Angeles Superior Court to charges stemming from his most infamous
    hacking."

<!-- end list -->

  - **Feb 05 - [Why You're Organization Must Increase It's Web
    Application Security
    Budget](http://www.itsecurity.com/security.htm?s=10164)** - "The Web
    application security threat is a real one. A failure to respond to
    this threat will result in real risk to any enterprise that stores
    financial or customer data. While the problem is a serious one, it
    is not something that cannot be fixed so long as proper attention
    and budget are allocated to it. Unfortunately, given the unique
    nature of the problem and its impact on the budgetary process, it
    will likely require direct intervention by the financial staff."

<!-- end list -->

  - **Feb 05 - [X-Force Notes Increase in Vulnerabilities. Where are the
    "X-Men" to fix
    them?](http://www10.mcadcafe.com/nbc/articles/view_article.php?section=CorpNews&articleid=347382)**-
    " According to the report, which was developed by the IBM Internet
    Security Systems (ISS) X-Force(R) research and development team,
    there were 7,247 new vulnerabilities recorded and analyzed by the
    X-Force in 2006, which equates to an average of 20 new
    vulnerabilities per day. This total represents a nearly 40 percent
    increase over what ISS reported in 2005. Over 88 percent of 2006
    vulnerabilities could be exploited remotely, and over 50 percent
    allowed attackers to gain access to a machine after exploitation. "

<!-- end list -->

  - **Feb 05 - [Rubin Smacks Diebold Once
    Again](http://www.huffingtonpost.com/avi-rubin/bad-software-all-around_b_40119.html)**-
    "Given what I've seen about voting system standards and voting
    system testing labs, I would bet money that the parking garage
    system at Baltimore Penn Station was tested more extensively before
    it was deployed than the Diebold voting machines that we use in
    Maryland."

## OWASP references in the Media

  - [FutureBazaar Partners with AppLabs Technologies for Security
    Testing](http://www.pr.com/press-release/30079)
  - [Lock it down: Use the revised OWASP Top Ten to secure your Web
    applications --
    Part 1](http://builder.com.com/5100-6389_14-6159742.html?part=rss&subj=bldr)
  - [Cenzic Identifies Latest Most Serious Web Application
    Vulnerabilites](http://www.webknowhow.net/news/news/070208CenzicWebApplicationSecurity.html)
  - [With Application-Based Attacks on the Rise, No Site Is Safe,
    Reports CIA (Cenzic Intelligent Analysis) Lab in Year End Top Five
    Vulnerabilities
    List](http://www.marketwire.com/mw/release_html_b1?release_id=212594)
  - [Two Fortify Software Products Named as Finalists in 17th Annual
    Jolt Product Excellence
    Awards](http://www.prnewswire.com/cgi-bin/stories.pl?ACCT=104&STORY=/www/story/02-01-2007/0004518030&EDATE=)