## The presentation

![JeffWilliams2.jpg](JeffWilliams2.jpg "JeffWilliams2.jpg") Application
security is arguably the most difficult IT challenge facing
organizations today. Chasing the 700 types of common weaknesses with
scanners and static analysis alone is a losing proposition. Rather than
chasing after these vulnerabilities, developers can address almost all
of these problems with a set of 10 to 12 strong centralized security
controls. To make it easier for developers to establish these controls,
the Open Web Application Security Project (OWASP) Enterprise Security
API (ESAPI) project has created a clean, intuitive, and open-source set
of security controls across the most popular web platforms, including
Java, .NET, PHP, Python, Cold Fusion, and ASP.NET. In this talk, Jeff
will show you how to create an ESAPI for your organization that will
solve the OWASP Top Ten vulnerabilities, increase assurance, and
dramatically development and verification cut costs all at the same
time.

## The speaker

Jeff Williams ([full bio](User:Jeff_Williams "wikilink")) is the founder
and CEO of [Aspect Security](http://www.aspectsecurity.com/),
specializing exclusively in application security professional services.
Jeff also serves as the volunteer Chair of the [Open Web Application
Security Project (OWASP)](http://www.owasp.org/). He has made extensive
contributions to the application security community through OWASP,
including writing the [Top Ten](topten "wikilink"),
[WebGoat](WebGoat "wikilink"), [Secure Software Contract
Annex](legal "wikilink"), [Enterprise Security API](ESAPI "wikilink"),
[OWASP Risk Rating
Methodology](OWASP_Risk_Rating_Methodology "wikilink"), and starting the
worldwide [local chapters program](chapters "wikilink"). If nothing
else, Jeff is probably the tallest application security expert in the
world and likes nothing better than discussing new ideas for changing
the way we build software.

[Category:OWASP_AppSec_DC_09](Category:OWASP_AppSec_DC_09 "wikilink")
[Category:OWASP_Conference_Presentations](Category:OWASP_Conference_Presentations "wikilink")