<table>
<thead>
<tr class="header">
<th><p>width="700" align="center"</p></th>
<th><p><br />
</p></th>
<th><p>width="500" align="center"</p></th>
<th><p><br />
</p></th>
</tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>align="right"</p></td>
<td><figure>
<img src="OWASP_Inactive_Banner.jpg" title="OWASP_Inactive_Banner.jpg" alt="OWASP_Inactive_Banner.jpg" width="800" /><figcaption>OWASP_Inactive_Banner.jpg</figcaption>
</figure></td>
<td><p>align="right"</p></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

#### Main

While there are extensive resources on the Internet about secure
architecture and security practices that when implemented effectively
across an SDLC produce highly secure and defensible applications. One
must acknowledge that their adoption has challenged project teams, one
constraint being lack of reference implementations that demonstrate
effective realization of highly secure and defensible applications.

Alchemist aims to bridge this gap. Alchemist is a free, open source,
enterprise web application security resource that enables software
development teams build high secure and defensible applications.
Alchemist is structured for easier adoption and learning for software
architects and programmers, allowing them to implement strong security
practices into their applications.

The focus is to achieve this objective by architecting and developing a
highly secure and defensible enterprise web application. The outcome of
this exercise is targeted as a reference implementation for development
houses. The overall objective is to leverage secure architecture and
practices to showcase secure application development implementations
with leading technologies and frameworks. In its first exercise,
Alchemist proposes to demonstrate a secure J2EE web application that is
developed using Spring framework.

OWASP lists a number of common application security
[vulnerabilities](:Category:Vulnerability "wikilink"). These apply to
most of the programming languages and platforms. The notable exception
being [buffer overflow](Buffer_Overflow "wikilink") and related issues
that do not apply to J2EE. .Net and the likes. Alchemist is designed to
demonstrate effective mitigation of most of these issues in its
reference implementations.

More details on the project, including the high level road-map can be
found in the Project About tab. If you'd like to contribute join the
[mailing
list](https://lists.owasp.org/mailman/listinfo/owasp-alchemist-project)
and share your ideas and suggestions on the ongoing progress, and of
course your proposal for contribution for the ongoing work or work for
other programming languages.

#### Project About

__NOTOC__ <headertabs/>

[Alchemist Project](Category:OWASP_Project "wikilink") [Category:OWASP
Tool](Category:OWASP_Tool "wikilink") [Category:OWASP Alpha Quality
Tool](Category:OWASP_Alpha_Quality_Tool "wikilink")