__NOTOC__

<table>
<thead>
<tr class="header">
<th><p>width="700" align="center"</p></th>
<th><p><br />
</p></th>
<th><p>width="500" align="center"</p></th>
<th><p><br />
</p></th>
</tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>align="center"</p></td>
<td></td>
<td><p>align="center"</p></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

# Welcome

![Owasp_banner_web_ini.jpg](Owasp_banner_web_ini.jpg
"Owasp_banner_web_ini.jpg") <font size=2pt>

## Focus Overview

OWASP recognizes the extraordinary contribution of our global community
by engaging them to provide input in seven areas of strategic focus.
Within each of these defined areas, there are opportunities to
contribute and participate. As with everything in OWASP, these
discussions and decisions are open to everyone.

Each volunteer team will focus on a key function or geographic region,
such as OWASP projects, conferences, local chapters, membership and
industry outreach. Local Chapters, Project Leaders, questions about
hosting a conference or starting a chapter should contact the
appropriate Focus Leader or Staff Member for assistance, guidance or to
suggest best practice.

## Global Initiatives

Each Item listed has links to the related documents, focus group
information, discussion pages, and voting opportunities if appropriate,
along with decision dates. Please review the provided documentation
prior to submitting your vote to ensure the decisions made are based on
educated and informed community input.

Each volunteer team will focus on a key function or geographic region,
such as OWASP projects, conferences, local chapters, membership and
industry outreach. Local Chapters, Project Leaders, questions about
hosting a conference or starting a chapter should contact the
appropriate Focus Leader or Staff Member for assistance, guidance or to
suggest best practice.

### [**START YOUR OWN INITIATIVE**](http://www.tfaforms.com/262386)

[**Sign up for a current
initiative**](http://owasp.force.com/volunteers/GW_Volunteers__VolunteersJobListing)

## Related Documents

**[Google Docs Folder with Meeting Agendas, Notes, and
Presentations](https://docs.google.com/folder/d/0B5Z9zE0hx0LNZ0pqZC1QWWRTM28/edit)**

**Previous Meetings**

February 28, 2013 - Mandatory Chapter Rules and Code of Ethics

  - [Recording of the 2/28
    webinar](https://ab743923f21b28b2966c-fe51df798f4d33c069b5eb4884cb3b25.ssl.cf2.rackcdn.com/Global?Initiatives?2-28-13?10.05?AM.mov)
    [PPT for Discussion - **Mandatory Chapter Rules and Code of
    Ethics**](https://www.owasp.org/images/5/56/OWASP_February_28%2C_2013.pdf)

-----

February 14, 2013

  - [Recording of February 14, 2013
    Webinar](https://ab743923f21b28b2966c-fe51df798f4d33c069b5eb4884cb3b25.ssl.cf2.rackcdn.com/2013-02-14?09.08?Global?Initiatives?-?Februrary?Goals?and?Objectives.wmv)

-----

January 24, 2013 - Overview of OWASP Projects - past, present, and
future roadmap

  - [Recording of the January 24, 2013
    Webinar](https://ab743923f21b28b2966c-fe51df798f4d33c069b5eb4884cb3b25.ssl.cf2.rackcdn.com/Global%20OWASP%20Webinar%20-%20Initiatives%20-%20OWASP%20Projects%201-24-13%2010.04%20AM.mov)

-----

January 10, 2013 - A discussion of current and future committee
structure and processes and a walkthrough of the Global Initiatives
pages, in particular, how to get involved.

  - [Recording of the Jan 10th 9am
    Webinar](https://ab743923f21b28b2966c-fe51df798f4d33c069b5eb4884cb3b25.ssl.cf2.rackcdn.com/Global%20Initiatives%20-%20Committee%20Evolution%20and%20Getting%20Involved%20with%20OWASP%201-10-13%209.04%20AM.mov)

<!-- end list -->

  - [Recording of the Jan 10th 9pm
    Webinar](https://ab743923f21b28b2966c-fe51df798f4d33c069b5eb4884cb3b25.ssl.cf2.rackcdn.com/Global%20Initiatives%20-%20Committee%20Evolution%20and%20Getting%20Involved%20with%20OWASP%201-10-13%209.04%20PM.mov)

# Membership

[850px](image:Owasp_banner_web_mem.jpg "wikilink")

### Membership Activities

Membership is an important aspect of OWASP, as the organization would be
nothing without its dedicated members. Membership helps OWASP grow,
creates OWASP Projects and creates a community of open source innovation
to share. OWASP needs dedicated volunteers to help grow the organization
in individual and corporate membership. A membership volunteer would
work on various activities depending upon their region and level of time
dedication. Volunteering to promote membership would require as much
time as the individual wanted to put in, and would never ask for more
time than an individual could give.

Related opportunities will be available as necessary:

  - [OWASP Election Policy &
    Procedure](Global_Board_of_Directors_Election "wikilink")

<!-- end list -->

  - Quarterly Membership Drives

<!-- end list -->

  - Biannual Corporate Fundraising Drives

<!-- end list -->

  - [Annual Global
    Elections](Global_Board_of_Directors_Election "wikilink")

<!-- end list -->

  - [Annual WASPY awards](WASPY_Awards "wikilink")

### Get Involved

[**Tell us what you would like to
do**](https://owasporg.atlassian.net/servicedesk/customer/portal/7/group/18/create/72)

### Join in the Discussion

[Discussion
Pages](http://www.reddit.com/r/owasp_initiatives/comments/10vycz/owasp_initiatives_global_strategic_focus/)

# Education

![Owasp_banner_web_edu.jpg](Owasp_banner_web_edu.jpg
"Owasp_banner_web_edu.jpg")

### Group Purpose

The Global Education Committee was created during the OWASP EU Summit in
Portugal 2008 to work with the [OWASP Education
Project](https://www.owasp.org/index.php/Category:OWASP_Education_Project)
to provide educational materials for both internal and external users,
develop liaisons with educational institutions worldwide, provide
awareness, training and educational resources to corporate government
and educational institutions on application security, and to move OWASP
educational material globally available as a well known resource in
easily consumable form mapped to a framework tied specifically to user.

### Ongoing Education Activities

Opportunities will be posted as they become available.

  - [OWASP Training](OWASP_Training "wikilink")

<!-- end list -->

  - [OWASP Academies](OWASP_Academies "wikilink")

<!-- end list -->

  - [OWASP Education
    Project](:Category:OWASP_Education_Project "wikilink")

<!-- end list -->

  - [Winter Code Sprint](Winter_Code_Sprint "wikilink")

### Get Involved

[**Tell us what you would like to
do**](https://owasporg.atlassian.net/servicedesk/customer/portal/7/group/18/create/72)

### Join the Discussion

[Discussion
Pages](http://www.reddit.com/r/owasp_initiatives/comments/10vycz/owasp_initiatives_global_strategic_focus/)

# Chapters

![Owasp_banner_web_cha.jpg](Owasp_banner_web_cha.jpg
"Owasp_banner_web_cha.jpg")

### Group Purpose

To provide the support required by the local chapters to thrive and
contribute to the [overall mission and goals of
OWASP](About_OWASP#The_OWASP_Foundation "wikilink").

### Ongoing Chapter Activities

  - [Chapter Leader Handbook](Chapter_Leader_Handbook "wikilink")

<!-- end list -->

  - Chapter Mentoring Program

<!-- end list -->

  - [OWASP on the Move](OWASP_on_the_Move "wikilink")

<!-- end list -->

  - Chapter Leader Workshops

### Get Involved

You may either visit a chapter page (via the above links) to view
available volunteer activities at your local chapter, or click one of
the following links:

[**Volunteer For A Chapter
Initiative**](http://owasp.force.com/volunteers/GW_Volunteers__VolunteersJobListing?campaignid=701U0000000gGnZ)

[**Start a Chapter**](http://www.tfaforms.com/261541)

[**Tell us what you would like to
do**](https://owasporg.atlassian.net/servicedesk/customer/portal/7/group/18/create/72)

### Join in the Discussion

[Discussion
Pages](http://www.reddit.com/r/owasp_initiatives/comments/10vycz/owasp_initiatives_global_strategic_focus/)

# Conferences

![Owasp_banner_web_con.jpg](Owasp_banner_web_con.jpg
"Owasp_banner_web_con.jpg")

### Group Purpose

OWASP Global Conferences bring thousands of security professionals
together to collaborate on security solutions. OWASP hosts 4 Global
events annually - one in each quarter - in 4 geographic regions: North
America, South America, Asia Pacific, and Europe. These conferences are
primarily organized and managed by volunteers and there are many
opportunities to get involved in events.

### Ongoing Conference Activities

  - [How to Host a Conference](How_to_Host_a_Conference "wikilink") -
    The comprehensive guide for hosting an OWASP event.

<!-- end list -->

  - Booth in a Box

<!-- end list -->

  - OWASP Conference Track

### Get Involved

[**Tell us what you would like to
do**](https://owasporg.atlassian.net/servicedesk/customer/portal/7/group/18/create/72)

### Join in the Discussion

[Discussion
Pages](http://www.reddit.com/r/owasp_initiatives/comments/10vycz/owasp_initiatives_global_strategic_focus/)

# Projects

![Owasp_banner_web_pro.jpg](Owasp_banner_web_pro.jpg
"Owasp_banner_web_pro.jpg")

### Group Purpose

The OWASP Global Projects Group is responsible for developing policies,
procedures, and strategies for all of our open source projects
worldwide. Currently the group is developing the global operational
infrastructure that will be used to facilitate participation and success
for all of our OWASP Project Leaders.

### Project Task Force

The OWASP Project Task Force is focused on cleaning up the Projects
lists, starting first with the Incubator projects. Learn more about the
current goals of the OWASP Project Task Force here: [Project Task
Force](https://www.owasp.org/index.php/Category:OWASP_Project#tab=Project_Task_Force)

### OWASP Cyber Security Startup Initiative

The aim of the OWASP Cyber Security Startup Initiative (CSSI) is to
catalyse opportunities for innovation in application security by
promoting the creation of prototypes of open source tools produced by
entrepreneur-lead teams seeking to form cyber-security start-ups. Learn
more about the more about this initiative here: [Cyber Security Startup
Initiative](https://www.owasp.org/index.php/Global_Initiatives/Cyber_Security_Startup_Initiative)

### 2014 OWASP Projects Handbook

**[Download the 2014 OWASP Projects
Handbook](https://www.owasp.org/images/d/d8/PROJECT_LEADER-HANDBOOK_2014.pdf)**

### OWASP Project Inventory

All OWASP tools, document, and code library projects are organized into
the following categories:

  - **[Incubator
    Projects](:OWASP_Project_Inventory#Incubator_Projects "wikilink"):**
    OWASP Incubator projects represent the experimental playground where
    projects are still being fleshed out, ideas are still being proven,
    and development is still underway.

<!-- end list -->

  - **[Lab
    Projects](:OWASP_Project_Inventory#Labs_Projects "wikilink"):**
    OWASP Labs projects represent projects that have produced an OWASP
    reviewed deliverable of value.

<!-- end list -->

  - **[Flagship
    Projects](:OWASP_Project_Inventory#Flagship_Projects "wikilink"):**
    The OWASP Flagship designation is given to projects that have
    demonstrated superior maturity, established quality, and strategic
    value to OWASP and application security as a whole.

### Get Involved

You may either sign up for a currently active project by reviewing the
project pages (via the listings above) and clicking on the Get Involved
tab, or visit the following links:

[Start a New Project](http://www.tfaforms.com/262389)

[**Tell us what you would like to
do**](https://owasporg.atlassian.net/servicedesk/customer/portal/7/group/18/create/72)

### Join the Discussion

[Discussion
Pages](http://www.reddit.com/r/owasp_initiatives/comments/10vycz/owasp_initiatives_global_strategic_focus/)

# Social Media and Communications

![Owasp_banner_web_com.jpg](Owasp_banner_web_com.jpg
"Owasp_banner_web_com.jpg")

### Group Purpose

The OWASP Connections Committee was created during the OWASP AppSec DC
2009 conference to help facilitate OWASP foundation communication both
internally and externally.

### Wiki Cleanup

The OWASP wiki is most important aspect of spreading information to the
OWASP community. As the years have gone by, there are several pages that
have become outdated or abandoned. The task of the Wiki Cleanup
Initiative is to wade through the various OWASP wiki pages and remove
outdated and fix the disorganized wiki pages that plague the site. To
find out about the Wiki Cleanup Initiative and to volunteer your time,
check out the wiki page: [Wiki Cleanup
Initiative](:Wiki_Cleanup#tab=Letter_to_Community_to_Start_Cleanup "wikilink")

### Security Podcast

Listen as interviews are conducted with OWASP volunteers, industry
experts and leaders within the field of software security: [OWASP
Podcasts](OWASP_Podcast "wikilink")

"OWASP 24/7" is series of recorded broadcasts, highlighting OWASP
projects and people from around the world. With over 43,000 members in
100 countries, the OWASP 24/7 channel is available on demand, at
anytime, anywhere on the planet. You are welcome to embed the broadcasts
on your page, download them for your personal listening or keep up to
date by subscribing to the iTunes channel.

### OWASP on YouTube

As part of the OWASP Media Project, an official YouTube channel is
maintain featuring session recordings from OWASP AppSec events. View the
full playlist on YouTube, where you can sort by event: [OWASP
YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/user/OWASPGLOBAL)

### OWASP Foundation Social Media

  -
    [LinkedIn](http://www.linkedin.com/groups/Global-OWASP-Foundation-36874)

<!-- end list -->

  -
    [Twitter](http://www.twitter.com/OWASP)

<!-- end list -->

  -
    [Google+](https://plus.google.com/u/0/communities/105181517914716500346)

<!-- end list -->

  -
    [Facebook](http://www.facebook.com/pages/OWASP/104106462960656)

<!-- end list -->

  -
    [NING](http://myowasp.ning.com)

<!-- end list -->

  -
    [StackOverFlow](http://stackoverflow.com/search?tab=newest&q=owasp)

### Get Involved

[**Tell us what you would like to
do**](https://owasporg.atlassian.net/servicedesk/customer/portal/7/group/18/create/72)

### Join In the Discussion

[Discussion
Pages](http://www.reddit.com/r/owasp_initiatives/comments/10vycz/owasp_initiatives_global_strategic_focus/)

# Industry Relationships

![Owasp_banner_web_ind.jpg](Owasp_banner_web_ind.jpg
"Owasp_banner_web_ind.jpg")

### Group Purpose

The Global Industry Committee was created during the OWASP EU Summit in
Portugal. The OWASP Global Industry Committee (GIC) shall expand
awareness of and promote the inclusion of software security best
practices in Industry, Government, Academia and regulatory agencies and
be a voice for industry. This will be accomplished through outreach;
including presentations, development of position papers and
collaborative efforts with other entities.

### Ongoing Industry Initiatives

  - Industry Outreach Sessions at OWASP AppSec Conferences

<!-- end list -->

  - [AppSec Guide For
    CISOs](Application_Security_Guide_For_CISOs "wikilink")

<!-- end list -->

  - [OWASP CISO Survey](OWASP_CISO_Survey "wikilink")

<!-- end list -->

  - [OWASP Citations](:Industry:Citations "wikilink") - References to
    OWASP in official, or otherwise important, documents.

### Get Involved

[**Tell us what you would like to
do**](https://owasporg.atlassian.net/servicedesk/customer/portal/7/group/18/create/72)

### Join in the Discussion

[Discussion
Pages](http://www.reddit.com/r/owasp_initiatives/comments/10vycz/owasp_initiatives_global_strategic_focus/)

# Research

![Owasp_banner_web_res.jpg](Owasp_banner_web_res.jpg
"Owasp_banner_web_res.jpg")

### Group Purpose

[OWASP Research](http://jowasp.github.io) is an initiative to start
developing OWASP projects in the field of innovative research,
specifically new ways to protect web applications by applying out of the
box concepts and technological developments.

### Ongoing Research Initiatives

  - [OWASP Research](http://jowasp.github.io)
  - [OWASP Benchmark](OWASP_Benchmark "wikilink")
  - [OWASP Python Security
    Project](OWASP_Python_Security_Project "wikilink")
  - OWASP IoT Embedded Web Interface (new)
  - Securing NodeJS (new)

### Get Involved

[**Tell us what you would like to
do**](https://owasporg.atlassian.net/servicedesk/customer/portal/7/group/18/create/72)

### Join in the Discussion

[Discussion
Pages](http://www.reddit.com/r/owasp_initiatives/comments/10vycz/owasp_initiatives_global_strategic_focus/)

# Active Initiatives

### OWASP Infrastructure

Clean up the OWASP Website Project - [Click
Here](https://www.owasp.org/index.php/OWASP_Initiatives_Global_Strategic_Focus/website_project)

### Membership

  - [Global Board of Directors
    Election](Global_Board_of_Directors_Election "wikilink")

<!-- end list -->

  - [Annual WASPY awards](WASPY_Awards "wikilink")

### Education

  - [OWASP Training](OWASP_Training "wikilink")

<!-- end list -->

  - [OWASP Academies](OWASP_Academies "wikilink")

<!-- end list -->

  - [OWASP Education
    Project](:Category:OWASP_Education_Project "wikilink")

<!-- end list -->

  - [Winter Code Sprint](Winter_Code_Sprint "wikilink")

### Chapters

  - [Chapter Leader Handbook](Chapter_Leader_Handbook "wikilink")

<!-- end list -->

  - [OWASP on the Move](OWASP_on_the_Move "wikilink")

### Conferences

  - [How to Host a Conference](How_to_Host_a_Conference "wikilink")

### Projects

  - [Project Task
    Force](:Category:OWASP_Project#tab=Project_Task_Force "wikilink")

<!-- end list -->

  - [Cyber Security Startup
    Initiative](Global_Initiatives/Cyber_Security_Startup_Initiative "wikilink")

### Social Media and Communications

  - [Wiki Cleanup](Wiki_Cleanup "wikilink")

### Industry Relationships

  - [AppSec Guide For
    CISOs](Application_Security_Guide_For_CISOs "wikilink")

<!-- end list -->

  - [OWASP Citations](:Industry:Citations "wikilink")

### Research

  - [OWASP Research](http://jowasp.github.io)
  - [OWASP Benchmark](OWASP_Benchmark "wikilink")
  - [OWASP Python Security
    Project](OWASP_Python_Security_Project "wikilink")
  - OWASP IoT Embedded Web Interface (new)
  - Securing NodeJS (new)

# Wiki Template

For initiative wiki pages, we recommend using the following template.
Tabs for **Road Map and Getting Involved** and **Initiative About** can
be added in the wiki markup under the news and events section. Let us
know if you need any assistance when using the wiki.

<div style="width:100%;height:160px;border:0,margin:0;overflow: hidden;">

![Initiatives_banner_large.jpg](Initiatives_banner_large.jpg
"Initiatives_banner_large.jpg")

</div>

<table>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>valign="top" style="border-right: 1px dotted gray;padding-right:25px;"</p></td>
<td><h2 id="owasp_xx_initiative">OWASP XX Initiative</h2>
<p>Give an introductory sentence.</p>
<h2 id="description">Description</h2>
<p>Add several paragraphs describing the initiative.</p></td>
<td><p>valign="top" style="padding-left:25px;width:200px;border-right: 1px dotted gray;padding-right:25px;"</p></td>
<td><h2 id="presentation_materials">Presentation Materials</h2>
<p>Add presentation materials</p>
<h2 id="initiative_events">Initiative Events</h2>
<p>Insert events items</p>
<h2 id="initiative_leaders">Initiative Leader(s)</h2>
<p>Insert name(s) of leader(s) and emails</p>
<h2 id="mailing_list">Mailing List</h2>
<p>Insert link to mailing list</p></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

# Contact Us

<font size=2pt>

## Contact

Contact us with any questions or ideas you may have concerning the OWASP
Global Initiatives: [Contact
Us](https://owasporg.atlassian.net/servicedesk/customer/portal/7/group/18/create/72)

</font>

<headertabs />

[Category:OWASP
Global_Initiatives](Category:OWASP_Global_Initiatives "wikilink")