# Main

<div style="width:100%;height:160px;border:0,margin:0;overflow: hidden;">

![OWASP_Project_Header.jpg](OWASP_Project_Header.jpg
"OWASP_Project_Header.jpg")

</div>

## OWASP Secure Software Contract Annex (Italian Version)

**SECURE SOFTWARE DEVELOPMENT CONTRACT ANNEX**

` WARNING: THIS DOCUMENT SHOULD BE CONSIDERED GUIDANCE ONLY.`
` OWASP STRONGLY RECOMMENDS THAT YOU CONSULT A QUALIFIED`
` ATTORNEY TO HELP YOU NEGOTIATE A SOFTWARE CONTRACT.`

## Introduction

This contract Annex is intended to help software developers and their
clients negotiate and capture important contractual terms and conditions
related to the security of the software to be developed or delivered.
The reason for this project is that most contracts are silent on these
issues, and the parties frequently have dramatically different views on
what has actually been agreed to. We believe that clearly articulating
these terms is the best way to ensure that both parties can make
informed decisions about how to proceed.

`"The security of commercial software will improve when the market demands better security.`
`At a minimum, every software request for proposal should ask vendors to detail how they`
`test their products for security vulnerabilities. This step will start convincing vendors`
`of off-the-shelf software and outsourced developers that enterprises value security."`
`      -- As John Pescatore, research director with Gartner`

We urge Clients and Developers to use this document as a framework for
discussing expectations and negotiating responsibilities. This Annex is
intended to be appended to a software development contract. These terms
are negotiable, meaning they can and should be discussed by the Client
and Developer.

## ABOUT THE PROJECT

This document was created by The Open Web Application Security Project
(OWASP) Foundation, a not-for-profit charitable organization dedicated
to creating free and open tools and documentation related to secure
software. To facilitate easy use in private contracting, this document
is offered under the CC Share Alike 3.0 license. You may modify and use
as you see fit. You can find additional details about this project at
<http://www.owasp.com/index.php/OWASP_Legal_Project>. We welcome comment
from both producers and consumers of software, as well as the legal
community.

OWASP gratefully acknowledges the special contribution from [Minded
Security](http://www.mindedsecurity.com) for their role in the research
and preparation of this document.

## Licensing

The OWASP Software Contract Annex Italian project is licensed under the
<http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/3.0/> Creative Commons
Attribution-ShareAlike 3.0 license\], so you can copy, distribute and
transmit the work, and you can adapt it, and use it commercially, but
all provided that you attribute the work and if you alter, transform, or
build upon this work, you may distribute the resulting work only under
the same or similar license to this one.

| valign="top" style="padding-left:25px;width:250px;border-right: 1px
dotted gray;padding-right:25px;" |

## What is OWASP Security Principles Project?

This document should serve as a guide to build a contract between the
commitment of the Software to develop and the company that will deliver
the software.

## Presentation

Will be available soon

## Project Leader

  - [Matteo Meucci](https://www.owasp.org/index.php/User:mmeucci)

Avv. Valerio Vertua, Avv. Giuseppe Serafini

## Related Projects

  - [OWASP Testing Guide](OWASP_Testing_Guide "wikilink")

<!-- end list -->

  - [OWASP_CISO_Survey](OWASP_CISO_Survey "wikilink")

## Openhub

## Quick Download

Coming soon

## News and Events

Coming soon

## In Print

This project will be purchased as a print on demand book from Lulu.com

## Classifications

Defender project.

# FAQs

<span style="color:#ff0000">

`   Many projects have "Frequently Asked Questions" documents or pages. However, the point of such a document is not the questions. `*`The``
 ``point``   ``of``   ``a``   ``document``   ``like``   ``this``
 ``are``   ``the``
 `**`answers`***`. The document contains the answers that people would otherwise find themselves giving over and over again. The idea is that rather than laboriously compose and post the same answers repeatedly, people can refer to this page with pre-prepared answers. Use this space to communicate your projects 'Frequent Answers.'`

</span>

## How can I participate in your project?

All you have to do is make the Project Leader's aware of your available
time to contribute to the project. It is also important to let the
Leader's know how you would like to contribute and pitch in to help the
project meet it's goals and milestones. There are many different ways
you can contribute to an OWASP Project, but communication with the leads
is key.

## If I am not a programmer can I participate in your project?

Yes, you can certainly participate in the project if you are not a
programmer or technical. The project needs different skills and
expertise and different times during its development. Currently, we are
looking for researchers, writers, graphic designers, and a project
administrator.

# Acknowledgements

## Contributors

<span style="color:#ff0000">

`   The success of OWASP is due to a community of enthusiasts and contributors that work to make our projects great. This is also true for the success of your project. `

Be sure to give credit where credit is due, no matter how small\! This
should be a brief list of the most amazing people involved in your
project. Be sure to provide a link to a complete list of all the amazing
people in your project's community as well. </span>

The OWASP Security Principles project is developed by a worldwide team
of volunteers. A live update of project [contributors is found
here](https://github.com/OWASP/Security-Principles/graphs/contributors).

The first contributors to the project were:

  - [Dennis Groves](https://www.owasp.org/index.php/User:Dennis_Groves)
  - **YOUR NAME BELONGS HERE**

# Road Map and Getting Involved

<span style="color:#ff0000">

`   A project roadmap is the envisioned plan for the project. The purpose of the roadmap is to help others understand where the project is going. It gives the community a chance to understand the context and the vision for the goal of the project. Additionally, if a project becomes inactive, or if the project is abandoned, a roadmap can help ensure a project can be adopted and continued under new leadership.`

</span> 

<span style="color:#ff0000">

`   Roadmaps vary in detail from a broad outline to a fully detailed project charter. Generally speaking, projects with detailed roadmaps have tended to develop into successful projects. Some details that leaders may consider placing in the roadmap include: envisioned milestones, planned feature enhancements, essential conditions, project assumptions, development timelines, etc. You are required to have at least 4 milestones for every year the project is active. `

</span>

As of October 2013, the priorities are:

  - Finish the referencing for each principle.
  - Update the Project Template.
  - Use the OWASP Press to develop a book.
  - Finish and publish the book on Lulu.

Involvement in the development and promotion of the OWASP Security
Principles Project is actively encouraged\! You do not have to be a
security expert in order to contribute. Some of the ways you can help:

  - Helping find references to some of the principles.
  - Project administration support.
  - Wiki editing support.
  - Writing support for the book.

# Main Content

__NOTOC__ <headertabs />

[Category:OWASP Project](Category:OWASP_Project "wikilink")
[Category:OWASP_Builders](Category:OWASP_Builders "wikilink")
[Category:OWASP_Defenders](Category:OWASP_Defenders "wikilink")
[Category:OWASP_Document](Category:OWASP_Document "wikilink")