Our first meeting in 2015 for the Israel chapter of OWASP took place on
March 30, at 17:00, at NCR's office, in Raanana, 9 Dafna St.

Attendance is free, but registration is required:
<https://owasp-israel-march-2015.eventbrite.com> . Over 120 people
attended.

## Agenda:

''' 17:00 – 17:30
''' **Gathering, food, and drinks (KOSHER)**

''' 17:30 – 17:40
''' '''Opening note '''

''' 17:40 – 18:20
''' ''' Collateral DDoS *'
*' Ido Leibovich, Imperva ''' ([download
presentation](Media:OWASPIL-2015-03-30_Collateral-DDoS.pptx "wikilink"))

Application Layer DDoS attacks are well known and well-studied for many
years, with numerous attack vectors varying in their origin and in their
methods, but sharing the basic objective to deprave the ability of the
target application to serve its clients. In this session we will present
a very unique DDoS attack that we stumbled upon when monitoring web
traffic, whose targets are innocent applications, which seem to be
chosen at random. We will show how DNS corruption operations allegedly
made as part of the so-called “Great Firewall of China”, the well-known
censorship system of Chinese authorities, with the peer-to-peer
unmanaged nature of the BitTorrent ecosystem, result in massive and
synchronized HTTP traffic targeted to arbitrary victim applications, and
in highly effective DDoS attack on these applications. We will show how
this attack looks like from the victim side, including the timeline and
the volume of the attack traffic. We will also isolate the parts of the
BitTorrent protocol that make it prone to become the ground for such
attacks.

''' 18:20 – 19:10
''' ''' Transcending From Digital to Physical *'
*' Yaniv Simsolo, Palantir Security ''' ([download
presentation](Media:OWASPIL-2015-03-30_Transcending_from_Digital_to_Physical.pdf "wikilink"))

The next generation of attacks aimed at the physical realm, can be
attained using the digital realm. The origins of hacking were aimed at
the physical, long since have been replaced with money gaining hacks,
are back with us. Since the Moore’s Law is becoming invalid, hackers
possess greater abilities than ever. Re-aiming the guns towards the
physical realm is highly lucrative. We will discuss and demonstrate
attack vectors on the digital realm aimed at the physical realm.

'''19:10 – 19:30
''' **Coffee break**

'''19:30 – 20:15
''' ''' Shell over what ?\! Naughty CDN manipulations *'
*' Roee Cnaan, Cipher Security ''' ([download
presentation](Media:OWASPIL-2015-03-30_Shell-Over-What-Naughty-CDN.pdf "wikilink"))

In this talk, Roee will introduce the unique concept of carrying
malicious traffic over Content Distribution Networks and de-facto
whitening and hiding it by using CDN native features.

[Category:Israel](Category:Israel "wikilink")