# Main

<b>Welcome to the Damn Vulnerable iOS Application home page.</b>

Damn Vulnerable iOS App (DVIA) is an iOS application that is damn
vulnerable. Its main goal is to provide a platform to mobile security
enthusiasts/professionals or students to test their iOS penetration
testing skills in a legal environment. This application covers all the
common vulnerabilities found in iOS applications (following OWASP top 10
mobile risks) and contains several challenges that the user can try.
This application also contains a section where a user can read various
articles on iOS application security. This project is developed and
maintained by @prateekg147. The vulnerabilities and solutions covered in
this app are tested upto iOS 7.0.4 .

Current Challenge Categories:

  - Insecure Data Storage (4 exercises)
  - Jailbreak Detection (2 exercises)
  - Runtime Manipulation (3 exercises)
  - Transport Layer Security (1 exercise)
  - Client Side Injection (1 exercise)
  - Broken Cryptography (1 exercise)
  - Binary Patching (4 exercises)
  - Side Channel Data Leakage (4 exercises)
  - Security Decisions via untrusted input (1 exercise)

# Framework

Damn Vulnerable iOS App (DVIA) is open source and its source is
available at the url <https://github.com/prateek147/DVIA> If you are
interested in contributing, you can contact the
[author](http://highaltitudehacks.com) at prateek.searchingeye@gmail.com

# Status

v1.1 – Launched on 17th February, 2014

Added new Vulnerabilities and Challenges in …

  - Security Decisions via Untrusted input
  - Side Channel Data Leakage

Some bug fixes include…

  - Optimizations for iPad
  - Grammatical errors

Also, this app comes with a new app icon and launch image.

v1.0 – Launched on 3rd February, 2014

Vulnerabilities and Challenges Include …

  - Insecure Data Storage
  - Jailbreak Detection
  - Runtime Manipulation
  - Transport Layer Security
  - Client Side Injection
  - Information Disclosure
  - Broken Cryptography
  - Application Patching

# Project About

Damn Vulnerable iOS application is a project started by Prateek
Gianchandani (@prateekg147) which gives mobile testers and developers an
iOS application to practice attacking/defending skill sets. Each
challenge area corresponds to an in-depth article designed to teach the
fundamentals of mobile security on the iOS platform. Some challenge
categories include multiple challenge types. You can download the app
from [here](http://www.damnvulnerableiosapp.com/security).


__NOTOC__ <headertabs />

[DVIA Project](Category:OWASP_Project "wikilink")
[Category:OWASP_Tool](Category:OWASP_Tool "wikilink")
[Category:OWASP_Alpha_Quality_Tool](Category:OWASP_Alpha_Quality_Tool "wikilink")