## AJAX - new technologies new threats

The emerging of AJAX based application has raised a serious of security
issues. Most of these issues are classical web application security
issues, but the architecture of the AJAX application which are
essentially a client-server applications over the web have raised new
aspects that has to be considered and addressed when AJAX based
application are developed. In the lecture we will discuss the AJAX based
architecture and how it effect the application security, as well as
countermeasures to mitigate the risk.

## Bio

Dr. David Movshovitz is a software engineering and information security
expert. Dr. Movshovitz served in Israeli Defense Forces for several
years and headed a R\&D team. He has earned important awards for
professional excellence during his military service, including the
Israeli Defense Award. After his departure from the military, Dr.
Movshovitz has served as a R\&D manager at Elscint Ltd., as a VP R\&D at
Algotec Systems Ltd., as a founder and CTO of NetAccess Ltd., as VP
Product Development in Taldor Group, as a CTO and VP R\&D of Magnifire
Ltd. that was acquired by F5 Networks inc, as a VP Product Development
in F5 Networks managing their development center in Israel, and was till
recently VP Security Technologies in F5 Networks Inc. Dr. Movshovitz
earned his doctorate in Physics from Bar-Ilan University.

David Movshovitz wide experience over the last 22 years enabled him to
provide strategic recommendations, as well as tactical product, incident
response and policy recommendation. David Movshovitz is teaching an
academic course on Web-Application-Security in Inter Disciplinary Center
(IDC) in Herzalia.