For Immediate Release

**OWASP Autumn of Code 2006**

'''London, United Kingdom, September 29, 2006 '''

The Open Web Application Security Project (OWASP) has recently launched
a new project entitled "OWASP Autumn of Code 2006” that is aimed at
financially sponsoring contributions to OWASP Projects.

On the 18th of September our call for entries ended and on the 25th of
September we released our list of selected projects to be sponsored.
OWASP has made the decision to sponsor 9 projects (5 at $3,500 USD and 4
at $5,000 USD) instead of our originally planned number of 8. We are
pleased to report about the exceptional quality of the submissions that
were received and we would also like to thank everyone who took the time
and effort to submit their ideas to us. It was difficult narrowing the
list down to the final 9 projects chosen, and we hope those that were
not sponsored will resubmit their ideas in future OWASP sponsorships.

Our congratulations to the successful winning projects and their
respective OWASP Autumn of Code 2006 candidates:

  -
    1\. [WebScarab
    NG](OWASP_Autumn_of_Code_2006_-_Projects:_WebScarab_NG "wikilink") –
    Rogan Dawes
    2\. [Live
    CD](OWASP_Autumn_of_Code_2006_-_Projects:_Live_CD "wikilink") –
    Joshua Perrymon
    3\.
    [CAL9000](OWASP_Autumn_of_Code_2006_-_Projects:_CAL9000 "wikilink")
    – Chris Loomis
    4\. [SiteGenerator and
    ORG](OWASP_Autumn_of_Code_2006_-_Projects:_SiteGenerator_and_ORG "wikilink")
    – Mike de Libero
    5\.
    [Pantera](OWASP_Autumn_of_Code_2006_-_Projects:_Pantera "wikilink")
    – Simon Roses
    6\. [Web
    Goat](OWASP_Autumn_of_Code_2006_-_Projects:_Web_Goat "wikilink") –
    Sherif Koussa
    7\. [Testing
    Guide](OWASP_Autumn_of_Code_2006_-_Projects:_Testing_Guide "wikilink")
    – Matteo Meucci
    8\. [OWASP .NET
    Tools](OWASP_Autumn_of_Code_2006_-_Projects:_Owasp_.Net_Tools "wikilink")
    – Boris Maletic
    9\. [OWASP Website and
    Branding](OWASP_Autumn_of_Code_2006_-_Projects:_Website_and_Branding "wikilink")
    – Aaron M. Holmes

Following our schedule, OWASP is now preparing for all selected projects
to commence development on October 1, 2006. For more information
regarding each project, including timelines and progress, please view
our [OWASP Autumn of Code 2006 Project
Page](Owasp_Autumn_Of_Code_2006 "wikilink").

**Project Schedule:**

  -
    1\. 31th August – 'OWASP Autumn of Code' initiative is officially
    launched

<!-- end list -->

  -
    2\. 18th September - Deadline for project proposals

<!-- end list -->

  -
    3\. 25th September - Publish of selected projects

<!-- end list -->

  -
    4\. 1st October - Project starts

<!-- end list -->

  -
    5\. 15th October - Update of Project status on OWASP Conference in
    Seattle

<!-- end list -->

  -
    6\. 15th November - Participants and to report on project status

<!-- end list -->

  -
    7\. 31st December - Project Completion

The "OWASP Autumn of Code 2006" project leader is Dinis Cruz (based in
London, UK) who can be contacted for further details.

'''About OWASP '''

The Open Web Application Security Project (OWASP) is 501c3
not-for-profit foundation dedicated to enabling organizations to
develop, purchase, and maintain applications that can be trusted.
OWASP's open source projects and local chapters produce free, unbiased,
open-source documentation and tools. The OWASP community also
facilitates conferences, local chapters, papers, presentations, and
mailing lists. More information can be found at www.owasp.org.

'''ENDS '''

'''Contacts '''

Dinis Cruz, OWASP Autumn of Code Project Leader,

E-mail: dinis.cruz@owasp.net

Andrew van der Stock, OWASP Executive Director,

E-mail: vanderaj@owasp.org

Jeff Williams, OWASP Chair (Alternative contact for all OWASP matters),

E-mail:jeff.williams@owasp.org