The 2nd meeting of 2014 for the Israel chapter of OWASP took place on
April 23, at 17:00.

The meeting was held at Akamai, 3 Ha’mada St. Herzliya Pituach, 2nd
floor .

Close to 100 people participated.

## Agenda:

''' 17:00 – 17:30
''' **Gathering, food, and drinks (KOSHER)**

''' 17:30 – 17:45
''' '''Opening note '''

''' 17:45 – 18:30
''' **Cloudy with a chance of WAF - Or Katz, Akamai Technologies**
([download
presentation](Media:OWASPIL-2014-04-23_Cloudy_with_a_Chance_to_WAF.pdf "wikilink")
| [online
prezi](http://prezi.com/kerd-7k4yh0i/owasp-il-2014-april-cloudy-with-a-chance-of-waf/))‎

Web application firewalls are a critical tool to those seeking to
protect their web applications - it is the first line of defense that
virtually shields modern web applications from the malicious actions of
web hackers. 5 years ago a typical web application firewall was an
on-premise solution, which was deployed and maintained by web
application owners. Nowadays, as more and more applications are migrated
to the cloud, we are also witnessing the cloudification of Web
Application Firewalls.

In this presentation I will discuss the non-obvious benefits and
advantages of cloud-based WAFs, for example - the ability to correlate
web application firewall events across numerous applications around the
internet, detecting widely distributed attack campaigns that in some
cases go unnoticed and in other cases may use zero day exploits that
could not be detected otherwise, etc.

''' 18:30 – 19:15
''' **An Arms Race: Using Banking Trojan and Exploit Kit Tactics for
Defense - Ziv Mador, SpiderLabs (Trustwave)** ([download
presentation](Media:OWASPIL-2014-04-23_Using_Hackers_Tactics_for_Defensive_Code_-_Trustwave_Ziv_Mador.pdf "wikilink"))

During this talk we will show how security products can use hackers'
advanced obfuscation tactics for their own defensive code. Once the
malware is “improved” to overcome that obfuscation we will demonstrate
how to back deploy these hacker tricks to a security product Proof Of
Concept to better block exploit kits and other similar web based
threats.

(Note that this is a repeat of the talk Ryan Barnett and Ziv gave at the
RSA conference several weeks ago:
<http://www.rsaconference.com/events/us14/agenda/sessions/1056/an-arms-race-using-banking-trojan-and-exploit-kit>.
More details about it are included in the blog they posted after their
talk:
<http://blog.spiderlabs.com/2014/03/bloodletting-the-arms-race-using-attackers-techniques-for-defense.html>.
)

'''19:15 – 19:30
''' **Coffee break**

'''19:30 – 20:30
''' **The Security of SSL - Itsik Mantin, F5 Networks** ([download
presentation](Media:OWASPIL-2014-04-23_The_Security_of_SSL.pptx "wikilink"))

Over last few years, a number of attacks have been discovered in the
Transport Layer Security protocol. The BEAST, TIME, BREACH and Lucky13
attacks were able to break the SSL protocol and extract data protected
by SSL such as session cookies.

In the presentation I will discuss the details of these attacks from a
cryptographic perspective, and in particular how does it happen that
state-of-the-art cryptographic algorithms suffer from a relatively large
number of vulnerabilities.

In addition, I will discuss the technical details and the implications
of the recently discovered Heartbleed bug (http://heartbleed.com/).

[Category:Israel](Category:Israel "wikilink")