[<https://www.owasp.org/images/c/cd/Seattle1006.gif>](http://www.owasp.org/index.php/OWASP_AppSec_Seattle_2006)

## Conference Location

This year's US OWASP conference will be held at the [Bell Harbor
International Conference
Center](http://www.bellharbor.com/meetings.aspx?SecID=97) in Seattle,
Washington from October 16th-18th.

[Training Day: October 16th](AppSec_Seattle_2006/Training "wikilink")

Main Conference: October 17-18

## Agenda and Presentations - Oct 17th-18th

The
[agenda](http://www.owasp.org/index.php/OWASP_AppSec_Seattle_2006/Agenda)
will follow the (current) standard OWASP conference format of two
tracks, with opening keynotes and presentations in the main auditorium,
split tracks in the middle of the day, and closing presentations back in
the main auditorium both days.

The Keynote will be by Michael Howard from Microsoft on "The Benefits of
the SDL initiative to Microsoft and its Customers". Mike is a top member
of Microsoft's security team and a coauthor of several application
security books including Writing Secure Code, 2nd Ed., and 19 Deadly
Sins of Software Security.

This conference will include presentations from many different OWASP
contributors and leading Application Security professionals, and will
include one panel each day.

The current OWASP AppSec Seattle 2006 agenda can be found
[here](http://www.owasp.org/index.php/OWASP_AppSec_Seattle_2006/Agenda).

## Training Day: Monday - Oct 16th

OWASP has arranged several Application Security one-day training courses
which are offered on October 16th, the day prior to the conference. More
information about the first tutorial is available here: [The Foundations
of Web Application
Security](AppSec_Seattle_2006/Training#T1._Foundations_of_Web_Application_Security_-_One_Day_Course_-_October_16th.2C_2006 "wikilink").
This course provides a great introduction for conference attendees into
the fundamental security issues that are highly prevalent in today's Web
Applications. The prevalence of such vulnerabilities is why OWASP was
formed to raise awareness of and help organizations and individuals
eliminate such vulnerabilities from their application code.

OWASP has also arranged for a second one-day training course on Web
Services Security. Information on this course is available here: [Web
Services
Security](AppSec_Seattle_2006/Training#T2._Web_Services_and_XML_Security_-_One_Day_Course_-_October_16th.2C_2006 "wikilink").
The movement towards Web Services and Service Oriented architecture
(SOA) paradigms requires new security paradigms to deal with new risks
posed by these architectures. This session takes a pragmatic approach
towards identifying Web Services security risks and selecting and
applying countermeasures to the application, code, web servers,
databases, application, and identity servers and related software.

A third course is now also available: [Advanced Asp.Net Exploits and
Countermeasures](AppSec_Seattle_2006/Training#T3._Advanced_Asp.Net_Exploits_and_Countermeasures_-_One_Day_Course_-_October_16th.2C_2006 "wikilink")
- In this course, you will push ASP.NET to the limit and will be shown
how ASP.NET applications and environments can be exploited by skilled
attackers.

## Evening Social Event - Oct 17th

At every conference we have an evening social event the first night.
This allows participants to have some unstructured time to mingle with
the other attendees. They are always fun and typically attract about
half the conference attendees. This year's event will be held nearby at
Anthony's Pier 66 at 2201 Alaskan Way, Pier 66, which is just a block
away on the same pier starting at 6:30. After dinner, many of the
participants then wander to the nearest bar/pub and continue sometimes
into the wee hours of the morning. In Europe this year some were pretty
hard core, staying out till 5 AM. I 'think' the bars in Seattle probably
close earlier than that :-)

More information on Anthony's Pier 66 is available here:
<http://www.anthonys.com/restaurants/info/pier66.html>

## Accommodations

The conference is located in downtown Seattle on the Waterfront just
four blocks from Pike Place Market and downtown Seattle. OWASP has
negotiated some discounted hotel rates in the area:

**NOTE:** Because of the blocks of rooms we have reserved, **it may
appear that these hotels are sold out** if you check online. If so,
PLEASE call them directly and mention you are reserving a room for the
OWASP conference. **As of September 7th, there were still many rooms
available.**

**Conference Hotel: Warwick Seattle Hotel (3.5 Stars) - OWASP Conference
Rate: $144 / night + tax. Ask for the OWASP Group Rate**

401 Lenora St (0.3 mi. \[\~8 blocks\] from Bell Harbor Conference
Center)

A set of rooms have been blocked off for Sunday through Weds nights (Oct
15, 16, 17, 18). Once they are gone, there's no guarantee that they'll
have more so please reserve your rooms early\!\!

Hotel Description: In the heart of downtown Seattle, The Warwick Seattle
Hotel greets you with European luxury and charm. Our 230 newly renovated
guestrooms are spacious and tastefully decorated, offering king or
double size beds. Also available are 4 penthouse suites with a full
living room and Jacuzzi tub. All guestrooms feature floor-to-ceiling
glass sliding doors with magnificent views of the Space Needle or the
city skyline.

www.warwickwa.com | 401 Lenora St | Seattle WA 98101 | P: 206 443 4300
F: 206 448 1662

**Additional Accommodation Options:**

Inn at the Market (4 Stars) - OWASP Conference Rate: $155 / night + tax

86 Pine St (0.3 mi. \[\~8 blocks\] from Bell Harbor Conference Center)

For OWASP Conference Reservations:
<https://reservations.ihotelier.com/crs/g_reservation.cfm?groupID=25691&hotelID=13171>

30 rooms per night have been blocked off for Sunday through Weds nights
(Oct 15, 16, 17, 18). *These rooms are only reserved until Sept. 27.*
After that, they will be released for general reservations.

Hotel Description: Seattle's premier small hotel located in the historic
Pike Place Market in downtown Seattle\! The Inn at the Market, a 70-room
boutique hotel overlooks two jewels of the city; the lovely Elliott Bay
and the bustling Pike Place Market giving guests an experience they will
never forget. An ideal downtown location for Seattle sightseeing, the
Inn at the Market is only a few feet away from Seattle's famed Pike
Place Market and the stunning waterfront, guests will find themselves in
the center of the vibrant downtown Seattle area. Boutique charm and a
warm elegance is evident throughout the hotel, from the elegant lobby to
the comfortable guestrooms.

www.innatthemarket.com | 86 Pine Street | Seattle WA 98101 | P:
800-446-4484 | F: 206-448-0631

Mayflower Park Hotel (3.5 stars) - OWASP Conference Rate: $159 / night +
tax

405 Olive Way (0.3 miles (\~9 blocks) from Bell Harbor Conference
Center)

30 rooms per night have been blocked off for Sunday through Wednesday
nights (October 15,16,17,18) These rooms are only reserved until Sept.
24. After that, they will be released for general reservations. Book
online at:
<https://reservations.ihotelier.com/crs/g_reservation.cfm?groupID=25569&hotelID=6628>,
or by phone at 1-800-426-5100. Be sure to mention the OWASP group rate.

Hotel Description: Built in 1927, the Mayflower Park Hotel has been
beautifully restored, retaining the ambiance of a classic European
hotel. Located in the heart of downtown Seattle, we offer the city’s
finest location for shopping, business and recreation. With direct
access to Westlake Center from our mezzanine level, guests can shop at
the Center’s 80 specialty shops, take the Monorail to the Space Needle,
and walk to nearby department stores. The Pike Place Market and the
Waterfront are a short walk away. The Mayflower Park Hotel is proud to
offer: 171 guest rooms and suites, complimentary high speed wireless
internet access, complimentary in-room coffee service and morning
newspaper. The Mayflower Park Hotel is a member of the National Trust
Historic Hotels of America.

www.mayflowerpark.com │405 Olive Way │P: 206 632-8700 │F: 206 382-6996

## Conference Fees

Standard: $450, OWASP Members: $400, Students: $250, Early Registration
Discount (by Sept 21): $50 ($25 for students)

Conference Dinner (Evening of Oct 17th): $50

Conference Tutorial (All day tutorial Oct 16th): $675, Student Fee: $375

Note: To save on processing expenses, all fees paid for the OWASP
conference are non-refundable. OWASP can accomodate transfers of
registrations from one person to another, if such an adjustment becomes
necessary.

## Directions

[From the Bell Harbor Conference Web
Site:](http://www.bellharbor.com/directions.aspx?SecID=92)

To Bell Harbor International Conference Center from north of Seattle on
I-5 South:

Take Exit 167 (West Mercer Street/Fairview Avenue)

Turn right onto Fairview Avenue

Take the first left onto Valley Street

Stay left; Valley Street merges into Broad Street

Continue on Broad Street to Elliott Avenue, and turn left

Once you pass the Wall Street intersection, park in the Art Institute of
Seattle parking garage on your immediate right

To Bell Harbor International Conference Center from south of Seattle on
I-5 North (coming from Sea-Tac Airport):

Take the Madison Street exit (also called Convention Place exit)

Turn left onto Madison Street

Stay on Madison Street until you come to the waterfront

Turn right on Alaskan Way

You will pass Pier 66 on your left; the next street after the sky bridge
is Wall Street. Turn right on Wall Street.

Turn right on Elliott Avenue

Park in the Art Institute of Seattle parking garage on your immediate
right

Take the sky bridge to the Conference Center, World Trade Center
Seattle, and Odyssey, the Maritime Discovery Center

The International Promenade is located in the Cruise Ship Terminal one
block north of Bell Harbor on Alaskan Way. To access, follow the
directions to Bell Harbor and take the elevator to the ground level.

\---Please note the two parking garage entrances, Elliott Avenue and
Wall Street---

2211 Alaskan Way, Pier 66

Seattle, WA 98121

phone: 206.441.6666

Click here for
[MapQuest](http://maps.yahoo.com/py/maps.py?BFCat=&Pyt=Tmap&newFL=Use+Address+Below&addr=2211+Alaskan+Way,+Pier+66&csz=Seattle,+WA++98121&country=us&Get%20Map=Get+Map)

Click here for PDF
[Directions](http://www.columbiahospitality.com/UploadFiles/FileID247/BH%20Directions.pdf)

To inquire about rates for the Art Institute of Seattle parking garage,
call Republic Parking at 206.443.1793.

## [Conference Sponsors](OWASP_AppSec_Conference_Sponsors "wikilink")

OWASP would like to thank the following organizations for sponsoring
this conference:

[<https://www.owasp.org/images/d/d1/Aspect_logo.gif>](http://www.aspectsecurity.com)
[<https://www.owasp.org/images/4/46/IOActive.gif>](http://www.ioactive.com)
[<https://www.owasp.org/images/d/d1/Fortify.JPG>](http://www.fortifysoftware.com)
[<https://www.owasp.org/images/3/3e/Watchfirelogo.gif>](http://www.watchfire.com/)
[<https://www.owasp.org/images/3/33/Ounce_labs.jpg>](http://www.ouncelabs.com/)
[<https://www.owasp.org/images/6/65/Citrix_logo.gif>](http://www.citrix.com/)
[<https://www.owasp.org/images/7/7e/50px-F5_50px.jpg>](http://www.f5.com)
[<https://www.owasp.org/images/a/a1/CenzicLogoTag4C.gif>](http://www.cenzic.com/)

More information about conference sponsorship is available
[here](OWASP_AppSec_Conference_Sponsors "wikilink").

## Dinner Sponsor

OWASP would like to thank [Secure
Software](http://www.securesoftware.com/) for sponsoring the evening
social event on October 17th.

[<https://www.owasp.org/images/9/99/SS_logo.gif>](http://www.securesoftware.com/)

## Facility Sponsor

OWASP would like to thank the [University of
Washington](http://www.washington.edu/) for helping to organize and
facilitate the event.

[<https://www.owasp.org/images/e/eb/UWSeal.jpg>](http://www.washington.edu/)

[Category:OWASP AppSec
Conference](Category:OWASP_AppSec_Conference "wikilink")