This page will contain the outcome of the multiple OWASP Chapter events
that will occur during during the week 5th Sep -\> 12 Sep (see [OWASP
Day](OWASP_Day "wikilink"))

## Presentations (links to)

#### Washington DC

All presentations can be found at the link below.

[Washington_DC_LIVE-O](Washington_DC_LIVE-O "wikilink")

#### Belgium

##### Getting started with WebGoat & WebScarab (Erwin Geirnaert)

Download
[presentation](:Image:OWASPDay2007Belgium_WebGoat-WebScarab.ppt "wikilink").

In this tutorial you will learn how to use WebScarab to solve the
lessons in WebGoat.

Following points will be explained:

  - Configure WebScarab as a local proxy
  - Intercepte HTTP requests and responses
  - Modify HTTP requests to solve the lesson “Hidden field manipulation”
  - Modify HTTP responses to solve the lesson “Bypass client-side
    Javascript validation”
  - Use the session analysis tab in WebScarab
  - Use the web services tab in WebScarab
  - Use WebScarab to analyze Ajax XML messages

**\!\! Prerequisites:**

  - Bring your own laptop with you\!
  - Download [WebScarab](OWASP_WebScarab_Project#Download "wikilink")
    onto your laptop
  - Download [WebGoat](OWASP_WebGoat_Project#Download "wikilink") onto
    your laptop

Erwin Geirnaert is CEO and co-founder of [ZION
Security](http://www.zionsecurity.com). He is a renowned application
security expert and has presented on various conferences like Javapolis,
Eurostar, Owasp,… about web security. He is board member of OWASP Belux
and actively involved in various OWASP projects like OWASP Java and
OWASP WebGoat. Because of his technical experience he loves to do
security testing, code review, reverse engineering,.. for Fortune 1000
companies in Europe. More information can be found on his LinkedIn
profile: <http://www.linkedin.com/in/erwingeirnaert>.

##### OWASP Evaluation and Certification Criteria Draft (Mark Curphey)

Download
[presentation](:Image:OWASP_Day_-_Belgium_-_Curphey.pdf "wikilink").

As opposed to me continuing saying what’s wrong with PCI DSS, it seems
to me that OWASP is a perfect forum to simply create and publish a
“better criteria”. This can either be adopted and implemented by an
organization like OWASP or considered to be incorporated into the PCI or
other security standards. We won't get bogged down in the politics
up-front, but hold something good up to the world for people to adopt.
This project would of course draw on and bring together many of the
other OWASP Projects including the Guide (What is a secure web app),
Testing Guides (How to test for a secure web app), WebGoat (part of how
to certify an individual understands and can find web app issues) etc.
Many of those projects may not be complete or a perfect fit today, but
this project can bring a common connecting theme to a lot of very
valuable IP that OWASP has built over the years. I will also create it
in such as way that a corporate could adopt/adapt it themseles as well
as an industry. Where other OWASP projects are not complete or currently
suitable I will build a requirements doc that can be considered by those
teams if they feel appropriate.

[Mark Curphey](http://securitybuddha.com/about/) ran Foundstone
consulting from 2003 until late 2006 during which time the company was
sold to McAfee. Before joining Foundstone Mark was the Director of
Information Security at Charles Schwab (responsible for the software
security program) and has also worked for ISS and several financial
services companies in Europe. Mark has a Masters degree in information
security from Royal Holloway, University of London and was the original
founder of the Open Web Application Security Project (OWASP).

##### Automated Web FOO or FUD? (David Kierznowski)

Download [presentation](:Image:OWASPDay2007-Belgium-dwk.ppt "wikilink").

We take a look into automated web application testing technologies and
their effectiveness against real life applications.

Also, we look into one of GNUCITIZENs latest projects, The Technika
Security Framework (TSF), which will enable users to automate security
testing directly from their browser.

[David Kierznowski](http://gnucitizen.org/about/dk) currently works as a
Senior Security Analyst for a leading penetration testing company in the
UK. He has worked in the security industry for the past 6 years. David
is also the founder of both [michaeldaw.org](http://michaeldaw.org) and
[blogsecurity.net](http://blogsecurity.net) and is an active member of
the [GNUCITIZEN](http://gnucitizen.org) group.

##### OWASP Pantera Unleashed (Simon Roses Femerling)

Download
[presentation](:Image:OWASPDay2007Belgium_Pantera_Unleash.ppt "wikilink").

The presentation will provide a glimpse into what Pantera can offer when
performing blackbox web assessments. In the age of Web 2.0 we need
powerful tools that provide us rich and accurate information and allows
us to manipulate that information into our advantage, that's what
Pantera is all about.

Simon Roses Femerling is a Security Technologist at the [ACE
Team](http://blogs.msdn.com/ace_team/) at Microsoft. Former PwC and
@Stake. He has many years of security experience where he has authored
and cooperated in several security Open Source projects and advisories.
Simon is natural from wonderful Mallorca Island in the Mediterranean
Sea. He holds a postgraduate in E-Commerce from Harvard University and a
B.S. from Suffolk University at Boston, Massachusetts.

##### CLASP, SDL and Touchpoints Compared (Bart De Win)

Download
[presentation](:Image:OWASPDay2007Belgium_BartDeWin.ppt "wikilink").

Over the years, specific methodologies and techniques for secure
software engineering have been proposed, yet dedicated processes have
become available only recently. In this presentation, the highlights of
an activity-driven comparison of three high-profile processes for the
development of secure software are presented.

Bart De Win is a postdoctoral researcher in the research group
DistriNet, Department of Computer Science at the Katholieke Universiteit
Leuven. His research interests are in secure software engineering,
including software development processes, aspect-oriented software
development and model driven security.

##### Threats of e-insecurity in Belgium and the Belgian response (Luc Beirens, FCCU)

Download
[presentation](:Image:OWASP_Day_Belgium_FCCU_e-insecurity.pdf "wikilink").

The presentation will give a short overview of the actual threats on the
e-society in Belgium. How are public and private sector organized (or
not) to tacle the different problems ? What are the tasks of the police
within this framework ?

Since 1991, chief superintendent Luc Beirens is engaged in computer
forensics and cyber crime investigations. He is head of the Federal
Computer Crime Unit of the Federal Police since 2001. Aside consulting
his detectives in current cyber crime investigations, he is responsible
for the reorganization, the equipment and the training of Belgian police
services concerned with cyber crime investigations. As member of the
European Working Party on Information Technology Crime (EWPITC) of
Interpol since 1995 and the EUROPOL cyber crime expert group since 2001,
he has cooperated in writing several documents concerning computer
forensics and cyber crime investigations. He lectures in these fields at
several police academies and universities. His is involved in several
organizations and platforms that are concerned with e-security, ICT
forensics and cyber crime combating. Before his detective career, he has
worked from 1987 till 1995 as analyst and project manager on the
development of the Police Information System of the Belgian Gendarmerie.
He holds master degrees in criminology and information technology.

##### For my next trick... hacking Web2.0 (pdp)

Download
[presentation](:Image:OWASP_Day_Belgium_2007-pdp.ppt "wikilink").

Web2.0, if I can summarize it with a few simple words, is all about
communication, distribution, information, agents, clients and servers.
Those who understand the 2.0 fundamentals have the power to manipulate
the global Web to suit their needs - hackers, the new digital breed of
the 2.0 world. Web2.0 hacking is a mean for communicating and
distributing critical information in a better way. It can be used to
build ghost infrastructures from where to launch attacks - anonymously,
no traces, nothing. Web2.0 hacking is also about the thin line between
client-side and server-side security. It is about the endpoints and the
electronic highways. It is about reaching the masses and yet being able
to perform attacks on specific targets. Web2.0 hacking is also about
distribution and influence, covert channels, bots, IA, ghosts inside the
electronic frame. Web2.0 hacking is also a movement, a cyber subculture
where individuals show their technical abilities, and understandings of
the world and use that to manipulate their way through the system.

Web2.0 hacking practices should never be related to AJAX and JavaScript
exploitation techniques only. Although it is true that client-side
security has a significant part of the Web2.0 ecosystem, it is important
to realize its role. There are far too many other aspects that we need
to look into. My aim is to cover these aspects and reveal the hidden
dangers.

[Petko D. Petkov](http://gnucitizen.org/about/pdp), a.k.a pdp
(architect), is the founder and leading contributer of the
[GNUCITIZEN](http://gnucitizen.org) group. He is a senior IT security
consultant based in London, UK. His day-to-day work involves identifying
vulnerabilities, building attack strategies and creating attack tools
and penetration testing infrastructures. Petko is known in the
underground circles as pdp or architect but his name is well known in
the IT security industry for his strong technical background and
creative thinking. He has been working for some of the world's top
companies, providing consultancy on the latest security vulnerabilities
and attack technologies.

#### San Antonio

Here is the Bruce Jenkins presentation on Developing an Application
Security Strategy for Large Enterprise Systems:
[1](http://www.owasp.org/index.php/Image:Fortify-bjenkins-AppSecStrategy-20070906.pdf)

#### Israel

**OWASP IL 8th meeting at the OWASP week** - **[Meeting program and
presentations.](http://www.owasp.org/index.php/8th_OWASP_IL_chapter_meeting)**

#### Turkey

**Introduction**

  - [Turkish
    Subtitle](https://www.owasp.org/images/6/66/OWASP_DAY_TR.sub.ppt) by
    Bedirhan Urgun (delete .ppt extension) for [Jeff Williams's OWASP
    Day Intro movie](http://www.owasp.org/downloads/OWASP_Day.wmv)

*' Privacy in Governmental Insitutions - A Current State Analysis*'

  - [OWASP2007_KamudaPrivacy.ppt‎](https://www.owasp.org/images/b/bc/OWASP2007_KamudaPrivacy.ppt)

Presentation discusses the understanding of the privacy concept settled
in governmental institutions and deliberate on general information
security problems related with privacy issues. Getting off with general
privacy problems, in specific, information about the privacy issues
related to web applications is given. Moreover, concrete suggestions on
providing a solid privacy in these institutions are presented.

Hayrettin BAHŞİ Chief Researcher CC Lab-UEKAE TUBITAK

''' Secure Web Application Development '''

  - [Guvenli_Web_Uygulamalarinin_Gelistirilmesi.ppt](https://www.owasp.org/images/4/4b/Guvenli_Web_Uygulamalarinin_Gelistirilmesi2.ppt)

Presentation points out the vitality of security phases and touchpoints
in SDLC, web applications' in specific. It goes over the principles,
patterns, threat modeling as well as other important factors that
comprise specification, development, testing phases of a secure
application process.

Korhan GÜRLER Chief Researcher PRO-G

**Discussion**

Answers to Panel questions can be found at
[2](http://www.owasp.org/index.php/Turkey) under the title of Artifacts
- OWASP DAY: on the topic of "Privacy in the 21st Century" - September 8
(Turkey 2007)

#### Italy

All presentations can be found
[here](http://www.owasp.org/index.php/Italy#September_10th.2C_2007_-_OWASP_Day_WorldWide:_.22Privacy_in_the_21st_Century.22)

#### Rochester

2007 OWASP Top 10 Most Critical Web Application Security
Vulnerabilities, by Ralph Durkee
[PowerPoint](Media:OWASP_Top_10_2007_v6.ppt "wikilink")

Abstract: Web application security vulnerabilities remain by the far the
most frequently reported vulnerability category. In spite of wide spread
use, and very frequent vulnerabilities, most web applications are still
not being securely developed and deployed. The presentation will
demonstrate why experts estimate the percentage of vulnerable web
application range from 75% to 99% and review the 2007 OWASP top 10 web
applications security vulnerabilities.

#### Ottawa

  - Presentation: What is Cardspace? By Christian Beauclair - Microsoft
    - [ppt](Media:Windows_CardSpace_for_OWASP.zip "wikilink")

The impact of phishing and other forms of online identity phraud has
grown enormously in the last few years. Today, people are starting to
curb their activities online due to fears of phishing and phraud and
because they just can’t be bothered to fight through today’s online
authentication systems such as multiple usernames and passwords, Captcha
control and OTP tokens. In this session we’ll explore some of the core
issues facing our identities online and then discuss how technologies
such as Windows CardSpace enable users to authenticate and/or present
personal information more easily and safely to sites that they know are
legitimate.

#### Seattle

All presentations can be found
[here](https://www.owasp.org/index.php/Seattle#Last_Event_06_Sep_.28Thurs.29).

#### Mumbai

  - Welcome Keynote : Dharmesh Mehta, Mastek Ltd.[Download
    Presentation](https://www.owasp.org/images/a/ab/Keynote.pdf)

<!-- end list -->

  - Black Vector of Web Exploitation : Aditya Sood, Sec Niche [Download
    Presentation](https://www.owasp.org/images/4/48/Owasp_Live0_Conf_Talk_Aditya_K_Sood_Sec_Niche.pdf)

<!-- end list -->

  - End User Privacy Breaches : Rishi Narang, ThirdBrigade [Download
    Presentation](https://www.owasp.org/images/4/4c/OWASP_Day_Rishi_Narang.pdf)

<!-- end list -->

  - Privacy on the Web - The road ahead in the 21st century : Yogesh
    Badwe, Orange Business Services [Download
    Presentation](https://www.owasp.org/images/f/fe/Privacy_0n_the_Web_-_The_Road_Ahead_in_the_21st_Century.pdf)

#### Poland

All presentations can be found
[here](http://www.owasp.org/index.php/Poland#Presentation)

## Pictures

OWASP Mumbai Chapter
[SNAPS](http://www.owasp.org/images/5/50/OWASP_DAY.JPG)

## Chapter event reports

#### Belgium

  - How many participants: 80+
  - How long did the event last: 8 hours
  - Pictures: (to upload)
  - Presentations: on the chapter page
  - Answers to Panel's questions:

#### London

  - How many participants: 15
  - How long did the event last: 2 1/2 hours
  - Pictures: (Ivan to upload)
  - Presentations: (pdp to upload)
  - Answers to Panel's questions: (Ivan to provide)

#### Washington DC

  - How many participants: 50
  - How long did the event last: 5 hours
  - Pictures: none
  - Presentations: Links above
  - Answers to Panel's questions: No time for a panel

#### Mumbai

  - How many participants: 38
  - How long did the event last: 3 hours
  - Pictures: [VIEW
    HERE](http://www.owasp.org/images/5/50/OWASP_DAY.JPG)
  - Presentations: on the chapter page

#### San Antonio

  - How many participants: 25
  - How long did the event last: 1 1/2 hours
  - Presentation: Bruce Jenkins "Developing an Application Security
    Strategy for Large Enterprise Systems"
    [3](http://www.owasp.org/index.php/Image:Fortify-bjenkins-AppSecStrategy-20070906.pdf)

#### Turkey

  - How many participants: 10
  - How long did the event last: 3.5 hours
  - Pictures: (on Bunyamin)
  - Presentations: (look above)
  - Answers to Discussion questions: (look above)

#### Israel

  - How many participants: 60
  - How long did the event last: 3 hours
  - Pictures: We seems to have no geeks with 2M phone cameras (and the
    leader forgot his :-()
  - Presentations: [Meeting program and
    presentations.](http://www.owasp.org/index.php/8th_OWASP_IL_chapter_meeting)

#### Italy

  - How many participants: nearly 110 (160 subscriptions)
  - How long did the event last: 4.5 hours
  - Pictures:
  - Presentations:
    [here](http://www.owasp.org/index.php/Italy#September_10th.2C_2007_-_OWASP_Day_WorldWide:_.22Privacy_in_the_21st_Century.22)

#### Rochester

  - How many participants: 11
  - How long did the event last: 2 hours
  - Presentation: 2007 OWASP Top 10 Most Critical Web Application
    Security Vulnerabilities, by Ralph Durkee
    [PowerPoint](Media:OWASP_Top_10_2007_v6.ppt "wikilink")
  - Meeting Minutes:
    [PDF](Media:2007-09-10_Rochester_OWASP-Meeting-Minutes.pdf "wikilink")

#### Ottawa

  - How many participants: 10
  - How long did the event last: 2.5 hours
  - Presentation: What is Cardspace? By Christian Beauclair - Microsoft
    [ppt](Media:Windows_CardSpace_for_OWASP.zip "wikilink")

#### Poland

  - How many participants: 61
  - How long did the event last: 3 hours
  - Presentations:

[here](http://www.owasp.org/index.php/Poland#Presentation)