<table>
<thead>
<tr class="header">
<th><p>width="700" align="center"</p></th>
<th><p><br />
</p></th>
<th><p>width="500" align="center"</p></th>
<th><p><br />
</p></th>
</tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>align="right"</p></td>
<td><figure>
<img src="OWASP_Inactive_Banner.jpg" title="OWASP_Inactive_Banner.jpg" alt="OWASP_Inactive_Banner.jpg" width="800" /><figcaption>OWASP_Inactive_Banner.jpg</figcaption>
</figure></td>
<td><p>align="right"</p></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

#### Main

## Welcome\!

Welcome to the Browser Security Acid Tests project. OWASP has adopted
this project with the goal to create an in-depth suite of test cases for
highlighting security issues in web browsers. By highlighting such
issues, we can help browser vendors adopt appropriate security controls
and implement new security features in a more consistent manner. We can
also help raise public awareness about various security issues while
providing objective data on the current status of browser security.

The project is under active development. Please take a look at TBD for
ways you can contribute.

#### Purpose

Web browsers are \*very\* complicated pieces of software. The landscape
of functionality provided by modern browsers is pocketed with security
concerns, both large and small. This project was started in order to
help people get a better understanding of what these issues are while
also providing browser vendors a forum to compare strategies,
vulnerabilities, and new features.

...

#### Approach

In order to get a feel for the security landscape of modern browsers,
it's essential to be able to create have a wide range of test cases
covering both high and low level security issues. In order to keep
things as objective (and simple) as possible, we've opted to focus on
automation as much as possible. To run these automated tests, a powerful
and generic framework is needed that can run in as many browsers as
possible. Fortunately, OWASP has adopted the [Web Browser Testing System
Project](http://www.owasp.org/index.php/OWASP_Web_Browser_Testing_System_Project),
a testing harness originally developed and contributed by Isaac Dawson.

...more details...

#### Current Status

This project is under active development. We are currently working to
establish the scope of the project, adopt a sensible testing framework,
and gather support from interested browser vendors.

This roadmap is being developed to help establish project scope, goals,
needed contributions, and so forth.

**Phase 0: Project Setup**

  - Adopt testing framework
      - Isaac's WBTS
      - Configure/setup/tweak framework for internal (project
        contributors) use
      - If we're adopting Isaac's framework, he/we will need to finish
        the rewrite

<!-- end list -->

  - Establish test case generation/submission process
      - figure out how to integrate automated and manual tests
      - clarify what a test case is exactly
      - crowd-sourcing test cases (potentially, if so, we'll need a
        submission portal)
      - confirm key team members contributors including "tainted" people
        key reviewers who are vendor neutral
      - crowd-source component (?)

<!-- end list -->

  - Clarify categories/scope for test cases
      - ensure separation between funded test case work and unfunded
        "edge-case" work (e.g. fuzzing tests which qualify for bounty
        rewards)

<!-- end list -->

  - Establish communication policy between project and browser vendors
      - disclosure policy for vulns identified in any given browser

<!-- end list -->

  - Establish deliverable output format
      - Presumably a website which the public can visit to run all
        automated tests and view results of manual tests
      - Clarify what deliverable items funding browser vendors can
        expect (if any)

<!-- end list -->

  - Secure funding
      - Establish website development requirements

**Phase 1: Project Work for Basic Test Cases**

  - Establish test case areas to cover
      - Prioritize these areas

<!-- end list -->

  - Develop Test Cases
      - have a meetup for primary contributors to hammer out test cases
        (potentially)

<!-- end list -->

  - Develop website for running test cases and viewing results
      - may include a submission portal

<!-- end list -->

  - Execute test cases
      - Disclose failing test cases to appropriate vendors

<!-- end list -->

  - Deploy website
      - establish hosting location (say in amazon cloud)
      - domain name

<!-- end list -->

  - Complete/deliver any other deliverables to funding entities

**Phase 2: Periodic Updates**

  - Develop new test cases

<!-- end list -->

  - Rerun all test cases

<!-- end list -->

  - Bug Fixes

<!-- end list -->

  - Update Website and Test Cases

<!-- end list -->

  - Market website

#### Get Involved

You can help by...

#### Proposal to Browser Vendors

Build test cases...

#### About

__NOTOC__ <headertabs />

[Browser Security ACID Tests Project](Category:OWASP_Project "wikilink")
[Category:OWASP_Tool](Category:OWASP_Tool "wikilink")
[Category:OWASP_Alpha_Quality_Tool](Category:OWASP_Alpha_Quality_Tool "wikilink")