For context of the meetings and mins., if available see
<https://www.owasp.org/index.php/OWASP_Board_Meetings> and pick the date
of the meeting

#### Voting Records

  - \= Outstanding actions required.

<table>
<thead>
<tr class="header">
<th><p>width="18%"</p></th>
<th><p>Date vote proposed</p></th>
<th><p>width="23%"</p></th>
<th><p>Details on item for proposed vote - 7 person board</p></th>
<th><p>width="20%"</p></th>
<th><p>Affirm</p></th>
<th><p>width="13%"</p></th>
<th><p>Abstain/Against</p></th>
<th><p>width="8%"</p></th>
<th><p>Pass/Fail</p></th>
<th><p>width="18%"</p></th>
<th><p>Decision Date</p></th>
</tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>March 18, 2019</p></td>
<td><p>Motion: to approve the 2019 Budget with stipulation to P&amp;L - line item for trademark from $75k to $40k. Martin Knobloch motions and Sherif Mansour seconds</p></td>
<td><p><strong>In Favor</strong>: 7 (Chenxi Wang, Gary Robinson, Ofer Maor, Owen Pendlebury, Richard Greenberg, Sherif Mansour and Martin Knobloch}</p></td>
<td><p>Against: 0</p></td>
<td><p>Passes: 7-0</p></td>
<td><p>March 18, 2019</p></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>February 18, 2019</p></td>
<td><p>Motion: to enable the Interim Executive Director to proceed with the registered trademarks effort with a cap of $75k and to look for another lower offer and for lawyers in Europe. Exclude United Kingdom if the cost will not be more to add it later and exclude an extensive search. (Martin Knobloch motions, Owen Pendlebury seconds).</p></td>
<td><p><strong>In Favor</strong>: 6 (Gary Robinson, Richard Greenberg, Chenxi Wang, Martin Knobloch, Owen Pendlebury and Sherif Mansour)</p></td>
<td><p>Against: 0 (Ofer Maor - abstained)</p></td>
<td><p>Passes: 6-0</p></td>
<td><p>February 18, 2019</p></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>February 18, 2019</p></td>
<td><p>Motion: To give the Interim Executive Director the same signatory authority as the Executive Director. Martin Knobloch motions, Owen Pendlebury seconds.</p></td>
<td><p><strong>In Favor</strong>: 7 (Gary Robinson, Ofer Maor, Owen Pendlebury, Richard Greenberg, Sherif Mansour, Martin Knobloch and Chenxi Wang)</p></td>
<td><p>Against: 0</p></td>
<td><p>Passes: 7-0</p></td>
<td><p>February 18, 2019</p></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>January 23, 2019</p></td>
<td><p>Motion: To have a face to face Board meeting in Amsterdam, Martin Knobloch motions, Owen Pendlebury seconds</p></td>
<td><p><strong>In Favor</strong>: 7 (Martin Knobloch, Owen Pendlebury, Sherif Mansour, Ofer Maor, Richard Greenberg, Gary Robinson and Chenxi Wang)</p></td>
<td><p>Against: 0</p></td>
<td><p>Passes: 7-0</p></td>
<td><p>January 23, 2019</p></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>January 23, 2019</p></td>
<td><p>Motion: To have a face to face Board Meeting in Las Vegas (during Blackhat- Monday and Tuesday), Martin Knobloch motions, Owen Pendlebury seconds</p></td>
<td><p><strong>In Favor</strong>: 7 (Martin Knobloch, Owen Pendlebury, Sherif Mansour, Ofer Maor, Richard Greenberg, Gary Robinson and Chenxi Wang)</p></td>
<td><p>Against: 0</p></td>
<td><p>Passes: 7-0</p></td>
<td><p>January 23, 2019</p></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>January 23, 2019</p></td>
<td><p>Motion: Martin Knobloch as Board Chairperson, Martin Knobloch motions, Owen Pendlebury seconds</p></td>
<td><p><strong>In Favor</strong>: 7 (Martin Knobloch, Owen Pendlebury, Sherif Mansour, Ofer Maor, Richard Greenberg, Gary Robinson and Chenxi Wang)</p></td>
<td><p>Against: 0</p></td>
<td><p>Passes: 7-0</p></td>
<td><p>January 23, 2019</p></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>January 23, 2019</p></td>
<td><p>Motion: Nominated Owen Pendlebury and Richard Greenberg as Board Vice Chairperson, Martin Knobloch motions, Chenxi Wang seconds</p></td>
<td><p><strong>In Favor of Owen Pendlebury</strong>: 5 (Martin Knobloch, Owen Pendlebury, Sherif Mansour, Ofer Maor and Gary Robinson)</p></td>
<td><p>In Favor of Richard Greenberg: 1 (Chenxi Wang, Richard Greenberg abstained).</p></td>
<td><p>Passes: Owen Pendlebury 5-1</p></td>
<td><p>January 23, 2019</p></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>January 23, 2019</p></td>
<td><p>Motion: Nominated Sherif Mansour as Board Treasurer, Martin Knobloch motions, Owen Pendlebury seconds</p></td>
<td><p><strong>In Favor</strong>: 7 (Martin Knobloch, Owen Pendlebury, Sherif Mansour, Ofer Maor, Richard Greenberg, Gary Robinson and Chenxi Wang)</p></td>
<td><p>Against: 0</p></td>
<td><p>Passes: 7-0</p></td>
<td><p>January 23, 2019</p></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>January 23, 2019</p></td>
<td><p>Motion: Ofer Maor as Board Secretary, Martin Knobloch motions, Gary Robinson seconds</p></td>
<td><p><strong>In Favor</strong>: 7 (Martin Knobloch, Owen Pendlebury, Sherif Mansour, Ofer Maor, Richard Greenberg, Gary Robinson and Chenxi Wang)</p></td>
<td><p>Against: 0</p></td>
<td><p>Passes: 7-0</p></td>
<td><p>January 23, 2019</p></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>December 19, 2018</p></td>
<td><p>Motion: To approve an updated Committee 2.0, Owen Pendlebury motions, Martin Knobloch seconds</p></td>
<td><p><strong>In Favor</strong>: 7 (Martin Knobloch, Sherif Mansour, Chenxi Wang, Andrew van der Stock, Owen Pendlebury and Greg Anderson)</p></td>
<td><p>Against: 0</p></td>
<td><p>Passes: 7-0</p></td>
<td><p>December 19, 2018</p></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>December 19, 2018</p></td>
<td><p>Motion: To have a high level approach to the annual Chapter/Projects funding requests, the detailed approach to be worked out at a later date. Sherif Mansour motions, Martin Knobloch seconds</p></td>
<td><p><strong>In Favor</strong>: 5 (Andrew van der Stock, Greg Anderson, Owen , Owen Pendlebury, Chenxi Wang and Sherif Mansour)</p></td>
<td><p>Against: Matt Konda (Martin Knobloch abstain)</p></td>
<td><p>Passes: 5-1</p></td>
<td><p>December 19, 2018</p></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>December 19, 2018</p></td>
<td><p>Motion: To have Ofer Maor replaced Greg Anderson, who is stepping down. Owen Pendlebury motions, Martin Knobloch seconds.</p></td>
<td><p><strong>In Favor</strong>: 6 (Andrew van der Stock, Chenxi Wang, Matt Konda, Owen Pendlebury, Sherif Mansour and Martin Knobloch)</p></td>
<td><p>Against: 0</p></td>
<td><p>Passes: 6-0</p></td>
<td><p>December 19, 2018</p></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>December 19, 2018</p></td>
<td><p>Motion: Do we want to include Global in the name of the AppSec Conferences. Martin Knobloch motions, Greg Anderson seconds.</p></td>
<td><p><strong>In Favor</strong>: 4 (Andrew van der Stock, Chenxi Wang, Owen Pendlebury and Martin Knobloch)</p></td>
<td><p>Against: 2 (Greg Anderson and Matt Konda - Martin Knobloch abstain)</p></td>
<td><p>Passes: 4-2</p></td>
<td><p>December 19, 2018</p></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>November 21, 2018</p></td>
<td><p>Motion: To approved the Compliance Committee Charter, Greg Anderson motions, Andrew van der Stock seconds</p></td>
<td><p><strong>In Favor</strong>: 6 (Andrew van der Stock, Greg Anderson, Martin Knobloch, Sherif Mansour, Owen Pendlebury and Chenxi Wang)</p></td>
<td><p>Against: 1 (Matt Konda)</p></td>
<td><p>Passes: 6-1</p></td>
<td><p>November 21, 2018</p></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>October 10, 2018</p></td>
<td><p>Motion: Sherif Mansour to replace Andrew van der Stock as Treasurer, Owen Pendlebury seconds.</p></td>
<td><p><strong>In Favvor</strong>: 7 (Martin Knobloch, Sherif Mansour, Andrew van der Stock, Matt Konda, Owen Pendlebury, Greg Anderson and Chenxi Wang)</p></td>
<td><p>Against: 0</p></td>
<td><p>Passes: 7-0</p></td>
<td><p>October 10, 2018</p></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>July 4, 2018</p></td>
<td><p>Motion: To hold a Global Event in Tel Aviv, Israel in 2019. Sherif Mansour motions, Andrew van der stock seconds.</p></td>
<td><p><strong>In Favor</strong>: 6 (Sherif Mansour, Martin Knobloch, Andrew van der Stock, Chenxi Wang, Greg Anderson, Owen Pendlebury and Matt Konda).</p></td>
<td><p>Against: 0</p></td>
<td><p>Passes: 7-0</p></td>
<td><p>July 4, 2018</p></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>July 4, 2018</p></td>
<td><p>Motion: To have at least three Global Events per year, strive for four. Sherif Mansour motions, Martin Knobloch seconds.</p></td>
<td><p><strong>In Favor</strong>: 5 (Sherif Mansour, Martin Knobloch, Andrew van der Stock, Chenxi Wang, Greg Anderson and Owen Pendlebury).</p></td>
<td><p>Against: 0</p></td>
<td><p>Passes: 6-0</p></td>
<td><p>July 4, 2018</p></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>May 2, 2018</p></td>
<td><p>Motion: To approve the 2018 Budget. Martin Knobloch motions, Andrew van der Stock seconds</p></td>
<td><p><strong>In Favor</strong>: 6 (Martin Knobloch, Matt Konda, Greg Anderson, Owen Pendlebury, Sherif Mansour, Andrew van der Stock (Sherif Mansour was proxy for Andrew van der Stock)</p></td>
<td><p>Against: 0</p></td>
<td><p>Passes: 6-0</p></td>
<td><p>May 2, 2018</p></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>March 7, 2018</p></td>
<td><p>Motion: is that Andrew can contact SafeCode.org and discuss possibility of collaboration. Sherif Mansour motions, Martin Knobloch seconds</p></td>
<td><p><strong>In Favor</strong>: 6 (Martin Knobloch, Matt Konda, Greg Anderson, Owen Pendlebury, Sherif Mansour, Andrew van der Stock (Sherif Mansour was proxy for Andrew van der Stock)</p></td>
<td><p>Against: 0</p></td>
<td><p>Passes - 6-0</p></td>
<td><p>March 7, 2018</p></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>March 7, 2018</p></td>
<td><p>Motion: to have staff look into establishing a service catalog, Sherif Mansour motions, Martin Knobloch seconds</p></td>
<td><p><strong>In Favor</strong>: 6 (Martin Knobloch, Matt Konda, Greg Anderson, Owen Pendlebury, Sherif Mansour and Andrew van der Stock)</p></td>
<td><p>Against: 0</p></td>
<td><p>Passes: 6-0</p></td>
<td><p>March 7, 2018</p></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>January 24, 2018</p></td>
<td><p>Motion: to approved 2018 Board of Directors Positions - Martin Knobloch, Chairman - Chenxi Wang - Vice Chairman, Andrew van der Stock - Treasurer, Owen Pendlebury - Secretary, Matt Konda - Member at Large, Greg Anderson - Member at Large and Sherif Mansour - Member at Large</p></td>
<td><p><strong>In Favor</strong>: 7 (Martin Knobloch, Chenxi Wang, Andrew van der Stock, Owen Pendlebury, Matt Konda, Greg Anderson and Sherif Mansour)</p></td>
<td><p>Against: 0</p></td>
<td><p>Passes: 7-0</p></td>
<td><p>January 24, 2018</p></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>December 6, 2017</p></td>
<td><p>Motion: Board recognizes that there are significant issues with the AppSec EU event and empowers our new Executive Director to review and whether it is still the best location for the event and determine if the event needs to move elsewhere. Josh Sokol motions, Matt Konda seconds)</p></td>
<td><p><strong>In Favor</strong>: 7 (Josh Sokol, Matt Konda, Martin Knobloch, Michael Coates, Tobias Gondrom, Andrew van der Stock and Tom Brennan)</p></td>
<td><p>Against: 0</p></td>
<td><p>Passes: 7-0</p></td>
<td><p>December 6, 2017</p></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>September 19, 2017</p></td>
<td><p>Motion: Clarification/modification of change approved in the August 9th Board Meeting to handle minor payables. Josh Sokol motions, Matt Konda seconds Modification: The original proposal removed the board approval from specific types of reimbursements and payables. However, the intent of the change (streamlining payments) was blocked by the need for board members (Chairman or Treasurer) to "release" the funds from the US bank account. The proposed modification would allow for the release of funds from the US bank for any of the specific reimbursement categories below. As we are currently doing, the details of all payables will be sent to the board during the bi-monthly payment batches so the board is apprised of all payables regardless of the categories below.</p></td>
<td><p><strong>In Favor</strong>: 6 (Tom Brennan, Michael Coates, Josh Sokol, Martin Knobloch, Andrew van der Stock and Matt Konda)</p></td>
<td><p>Against: 0</p></td>
<td><p>Passes: 6-0</p></td>
<td><p>September 19, 2017</p></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>September 19, 2017</p></td>
<td><p>Motion: to zero out all Chapter and Project negative budget balances. Andrew van der Stock motions, Martin Knobloch seconds</p></td>
<td><p><strong>In Favor</strong>: 4 (Martin Knobloch, Andrew van der Stock, Josh Sokol and Michael Coates)</p></td>
<td><p>Against: 2 (Tom Brennan and Matt Konda)</p></td>
<td><p>Passes: 4-2</p></td>
<td><p>September 19, 2017</p></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>September 19, 2017</p></td>
<td><p>Motion: All OWASP Summits are to be attached to an AppSec event and managed as a global event. Tom Brennan motions, Andrew van der Stock, seconds.</p></td>
<td><p><strong>In Favor</strong>: 5 (Tom Brennan, Andrew van der Stock, Michael Coates, Josh Sokol and Matt Konda)</p></td>
<td><p>Against: 1 (Martin Knobloch)</p></td>
<td><p>Pass: 5-1</p></td>
<td><p>September 19, 2017</p></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>August 9, 2017</p></td>
<td><p>Motion: to adjust approval processes to meet operational needs as outlined below: Remove board approval for any expense that meets any one of the criteria below</p>
<p>--Reimbursement from chapter/project funds which have a sufficient balance capped at $10k -- Routine expenses who already have budget allocated e.x. Mobile phone bill capped at $10k -- Expenses under $10k which O&amp;A Committee have approved and are already budgeted -- Payroll expenses that are the same as the past month’s salary (e.g. same as always) since for salaried staff, payroll expense is fixed and for hourly staff, hours will be approved by Matt Tesauro -- Treasurer will review all salary payments on at least a quarterly basis -- Board must approve any changes to payroll outside the above conditions.</p></td>
<td><p><strong>In Favor</strong>: 4 (Andrew van der Stock, Tom Brennan, Tobias Gondrom and Matt Konda)</p></td>
<td><p>Against: 0</p></td>
<td><p>Pass: 4-0</p></td>
<td><p>August 9, 2017</p></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>August 9, 2017</p></td>
<td><p>Motion: to appoint Josh Sokol as Vice Chairman of the Boards of Directors. Tobias Gondrom motions and Andrew van der Stocks seconds</p></td>
<td><p><strong>In Favor</strong>: 4 (Andrew van der Stock, Tom Brennan, Tobias Gondrom, Matt Konda)</p></td>
<td><p>Against: 0</p></td>
<td><p>Pass: 4-0</p></td>
<td><p>August 9, 2017</p></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>July 5, 2017</p></td>
<td><p>Motion: to approve the amendment to the Virtual, Inc. accounting agreement, which includes running accounts payables bi-monthly. Matt Konda motions, Tobias Gondrom seconds</p></td>
<td><p><strong>In Favor</strong>: 4 (Tobias Gondrom, Martin Knobloch, Michael Coates, Matt Konda)</p></td>
<td><p>Abstain: 1 (Josh Sokol)</p></td>
<td><p>Pass: 4-0</p></td>
<td><p>July 5, 2017</p></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>June 7, 2017</p></td>
<td><p>Motion: to revise Section 3.02 to the OWASP bylaws to read as follows: MOTION: Revise Section 3.02 to read: The number of directors of the Foundation shall be no less than five and no more than seven. Each director shall hold office for two years unless duly removed. *An individual is limited to no more than two (2) terms in any ten year period.* Each director must be elected as prescribed in the election policy and procedure. Josh Sokol motions, Tom Brennan seconds</p></td>
<td><p><strong>In Favor</strong>: 6 (Andrew van der Stock, Tom Brennan, Josh Sokol, Michael Coates, Tobias Gondrom, Matt Konda, Martin Knobloch - Shadow Vote)</p></td>
<td><p>Against: 0</p></td>
<td><p>Pass: 6-0</p></td>
<td><p>June 7, 2017</p></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>June 7, 2017</p></td>
<td><p>Motion: to approve $6,000 to the Mentor Initiative via the Mentor Committee. Matt Konda motions, Tom Brennan seconds</p></td>
<td><p><strong>In Favor</strong>: (Andrew van der Stock, Josh Sokol, Michael Coates, Tobias Gondrom, Matt Konda, Martin Knobloch - Shadow Vote)</p></td>
<td><p>Abstain: Tom Brennan</p></td>
<td><p>Pass: 5-0</p></td>
<td><p>June 7, 2017</p></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>May 16, 2017</p></td>
<td><p>Motion: I move that the Board fills the casual Board of Directors vacancy created by Johanna Curiel's resignation, by appointing Martin Knobloch as a Director through to the end of Johanna's term (December 31, 2018), effective as soon as the standard Board induction training is complete. Andrew van der Stock motioned, Tom Brennan seconds</p></td>
<td><p><strong>In Favor</strong>: 6 (Josh Sokol, Andrew van der Stock, Tom Brennan, Michael Coates, Tobias Gondrom, Matt Konda)</p></td>
<td><p>Against: 0</p></td>
<td><p>Pass: 6-0</p></td>
<td><p>May 19, 2017</p></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>May 15, 2017</p></td>
<td><p>Motion 1. Allow the organisers of the Summit to spend up to $50k USD using funds allocated from the original $150k seed allocation to fund OWASP staff attendance and other activities as set set out in emails to the Board and in the Summit Budget</p>
<p>2. Cost to OWASP - up to $50k USD. Organisers will continue to work with OWASP staff to ensure that sponsorships and income is booked through the Foundation, as the event will likely make a loss. The Board requests the Summit organizers to minimise spending on necessary items and aim for break even, to ensure as minimal a loss as possible. However, the Board should be under no illusions that the event will break even, and will likely make a loss of up to $50k.</p>
<p>3. Debrief. Once all bills are paid and certainly before AppSec USA, the Board must have a one hour debrief with OWASP's Event Manager and the Summit organisers to determine if OWASP will ever do such an event again, what changes need to be made (regional / global, location, timing, funding, marketing, media, etc), objectives hit, and lessons learned. Andrew van der Stock motions, Josh Sokol seconds</p></td>
<td><p><strong>In Favor</strong>: 6 (Matt Konda, Andrew van der Stock, Josh Sokol, Michael Coates, Tobias Gondrom, Tom Brennan)</p></td>
<td><p>Against: 0</p></td>
<td><p>Passes: 6-0</p></td>
<td><p>May 16, 2017</p></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>May 9, 2017</p></td>
<td><p>Motion: - to update Section 3.03 of the OWASP ByLaws to read: ... Attendance in person or virtually by board members is required at no less than 75% of the total meetings each year and shall be highly encouraged to meet in person at least once annually at a date to be announced and agreed upon. To be considered as "attended", the board member must attend at least 90% of the meeting, starting at the published scheduled time until the published end time or the meeting is adjourned (whichever is earlier). Attendance is tabulated by the Executive Director or delegate within seven days after every scheduled meeting for the purpose of determining if the 75% attendance requirement has been met, and the tabulation is based upon the entire calendar year. … Josh Sokol motioned, Michael Coates seconds</p></td>
<td><p><strong>In Favor</strong>: 7 (Matt Konda, Tom Brennan, Andrew van der Stock, Johanna Curiel, Michael Coates, Tobias Gondrom, Josh Sokol)</p></td>
<td><p>Against: 0</p></td>
<td><p>Pass: 7-0</p></td>
<td><p>May 9, 2017</p></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>May 9, 2017</p></td>
<td><p>Motion: Board supports the intent to migrate to a centralized foundation remodel for AppSec USA and request that the staff submit a formal budget, timeline and resources for review and approval by July 2017. Matt Konda motioned, Tobias Gondrom seconds</p></td>
<td><p><strong>In Favor</strong>: 7 (Matt Konda, Michael Coates, Tom Brennan, Tobias Gondrom, Andrew van der Stock, Josh Sokol, Johanna Curiel)</p></td>
<td><p>Against: 0</p></td>
<td><p>Pass: 7-0</p></td>
<td><p>May 9, 2017</p></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>May 9, 2017</p></td>
<td><p>Motion: To table request for an additional $85,000 for the OWASP Summit, based on the request for additional information. Josh Sokol motions, Tobias Gondrom seconds</p></td>
<td><p><strong>In Favor</strong>: 6 (Matt Konda, Andrew van der Stock, Tom Brennan, Michael Coates, Josh Sokol, Tobias Gondrom)</p></td>
<td><p>Against: 0</p></td>
<td><p>Passes: 6-0</p></td>
<td><p>May 9, 2017</p></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>March 22, 2017</p></td>
<td><p>Motion: To approve the current budget (Version 8) adding a line item for the Strategic Goal of Global Training for $80,000 and to have Laura enforce the proposed profit targets for all conferences. Matt Konda motions, Tom Brennan seconds</p></td>
<td><p><strong>In Favor</strong>: 4 (Michael Coates, Josh Sokol, Johanna Curiel and Matt Konda)</p></td>
<td><p>Abstain: 1 (Tom Brennan)</p></td>
<td><p>Passes: 4-1</p></td>
<td><p>March 22, 2017</p></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>March 22, 2017</p></td>
<td><p>Motion: To table the discussion on line items indicating monies already allocated for Chapters and/or Projects. Michael Coates motioned, Tom Brennan seconds</p></td>
<td><p><strong>In Favor</strong>: 3 (Matt Konda, Michael Coates and Johanna Curiel)</p></td>
<td><p>Against: 2 (Josh Sokol and Tom Brennan)</p></td>
<td><p>Pass: 3-2</p></td>
<td><p>March 22, 2017</p></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>March 8, 2017</p></td>
<td><p>Motion: To table the Project Funding Incentives until Matt Konda is available to discuss. Tobias Gondrom motioned, Josh Sokol seconds</p></td>
<td><p><strong>In Favor</strong>: 4 (Tom Brennan, Josh Sokol, Tobias Gondrom and Michael Coates)</p></td>
<td><p>Against: 0</p></td>
<td><p>Pass: 4-0</p></td>
<td><p>March 8, 2017</p></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>March 8, 2017</p></td>
<td><p>Motion: To approved the $10,000 item on the pending 2017 Budget for Latam Tour, Tom Brennan motioned, Josh Sokol seconds</p></td>
<td><p><strong>In Favor</strong>: 5 (Johanna Curiel, Josh Sokol, Tobias Gondrom, Michael Coates and Tom Brennan)</p></td>
<td><p>Against: 0</p></td>
<td><p>Pass: 5-0</p></td>
<td><p>March 8, 2017</p></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>March 8, 2017</p></td>
<td><p>Motion: Meeting to scheduled a special Board Meeting to approve the 2017 Budget. The pending budget will be sent to the Board Members on 3/15/17 and the meeting will be scheduled for 3/22/17. Johanna Curiel motioned, Tobias Gondrom seconds</p></td>
<td><p><strong>In Favor</strong>: 5 (Josh Sokol, Tobias Gondrom, Tom Brennan, Johanna Curiel and Michael Coates)</p></td>
<td><p>Against: 0</p></td>
<td><p>Pass: 5-0</p></td>
<td><p>March 8, 2017</p></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Feb. 8, 2017</p></td>
<td><p>Motion: An update to the bylaws, section 2.02, requesting limits of 2 year term and that board member can only serve for no more than (2) 2 year terms in a 10 year period. Josh Sokol motioned, Michael Coates seconds</p></td>
<td><p><strong>In Favor</strong>: 6 (Matt Konda, Josh Sokol, Michael Coates, Andrew van der Stock, Johanna Curiel, Tobias Gondrom)</p></td>
<td><p>Against: 0</p></td>
<td><p>Pass: 6-0</p></td>
<td><p>Feb. 8, 2017</p></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>Feb. 8, 2017</p></td>
<td><p>Motion: Motion to formalize the O&amp;A Committee. Johanna Curiel motioned, Josh Sokol second it.</p></td>
<td><p><strong>In Favor</strong>: 6 (Matt Konda, Josh Sokol, Michael Coates, Andrew van der Stock, Johanna Curiel, Tobias Gondrom)</p></td>
<td><p>Against: 0</p></td>
<td><p>Pass: 6-0</p></td>
<td><p>Feb. 8, 2017</p></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Feb. 8, 2017</p></td>
<td><p>Motion: To assign training as 2017 Strategic Goal. Michael Coates motioned and Josh second it.</p></td>
<td><p><strong>In Favor</strong>: 6 (Matt Konda, Josh Sokol, Michael Coates, Andrew van der Stock, Johanna Curiel, Tobias Gondrom)</p></td>
<td><p>Against: 0</p></td>
<td><p>Pass: 6-0</p></td>
<td><p>Feb. 8, 2017</p></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>Jan. 11, 2017</p></td>
<td><p>Motion: Vote for 2017 Board Chairperson. Nominees - Matt Konda, Tom Brennan and Johanna Curiel</p></td>
<td><p><strong>Matt Konda nominated</strong>: 5 votes (Andrew van der Stock, Josh Sokol, Tobias Gondrom, Michael Coates and Matt Konda)</p></td>
<td><p>Tom Brennan votes: 2 (Tom Brennan and Johanna Curiel)</p></td>
<td><p>Johanna Curiel votes: 0</p></td>
<td><p>Jan. 11, 2017</p></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Jan. 11, 2017</p></td>
<td><p>Motion: Vote for 2017 Board Vice Chairperson. Nominees - Johanna Curiel and Josh Sokol</p></td>
<td><p><strong>Johanna Curiel nominated</strong>: 4 votes (Tom Brennan, Johanna Curiel, Andrew van der Stock and Tobias Gondrom)</p></td>
<td><p>Josh Sokol: 3 votes (Josh Sokol, Michael Coates and Matt Konda)</p></td>
<td></td>
<td><p>Jan. 11, 2017</p></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>Jan. 11, 2017</p></td>
<td><p>Motion: Vote for 2017 Board Treasurer. Nominees - Andrew van der Stock and Tom Brennan</p></td>
<td><p><strong>Andrew van der Stock nominated</strong>: 6 votes (Andrew van der Stock, Johanna Curiel, Josh Sokol, Michael Coates, Matt Konda and Tobias Gondrom)</p></td>
<td><p>Tom Brennan: 1 vote (Tom Brennan)</p></td>
<td></td>
<td><p>Jan. 11, 2017</p></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Jan. 11, 2017</p></td>
<td><p>Motion: Vote for 2017 Board Secretary. Nominee - Tom Brennan</p></td>
<td><p><strong>Tom Brennan nominated</strong>: 7 votes</p></td>
<td><p>Against: 0</p></td>
<td><p>Pass: 7-0</p></td>
<td><p>Jan. 11, 2017</p></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>Jan. 11, 2017</p></td>
<td><p>Motion: Approve the Communication Plan as an 2017 Operational Goal</p></td>
<td><p><strong>In Favor</strong>: 6 (Tom Brennan, Andrew van der Stock, Michael Coates, Tobias Gondrom, Josh Sokol and Matt Konda)</p></td>
<td><p>Against: 1 (Johanna Curiel)</p></td>
<td><p>Pass: 6-1</p></td>
<td><p>Jan. 11, 2017</p></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Dec. 14, 2016</p></td>
<td><p>Motion: All accounts belonging to active chapters and projects, as defined in the Chapter and Project Handbooks respectively, with balances less than $500, will be brought to $500 beginning January 1, 2017 as long as there are at least two active leaders at that time with at least one being an OWASP member.</p></td>
<td><p>In Favor: 3 (Tom Brennan, Josh Sokol and Matt Konda)</p></td>
<td><p>Against: 1 (Andrew van der Stock)</p></td>
<td><p>Pass: 3-1</p></td>
<td><p>Dec. 14, 2016</p></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>Nov. 8, 2016</p></td>
<td><p>Motion: That the Board reaffirms that all Chapters who have two active Chapter Leaders and their account is below a $500 balance that on 1/1/17 their account would be raised to $500 balance.</p></td>
<td><p>In Favor: 5</p></td>
<td><p>Against: 0</p></td>
<td><p>Pass: Unanimous consent</p></td>
<td><p>Nov. 8, 2016</p></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Oct. 11, 2016</p></td>
<td><p>Motion: To add two board members from the open source industry to the board to increase outside input into operational process. Tom seconds.</p></td>
<td><p>In Favor: 2 (Andrew van der Stock and Johnathan Carter)</p></td>
<td><p>Against: 4 (Josh Sokol, Matt Konda, Tom Brennan and Tobias Gondrom)</p></td>
<td><p>Fail: 4-2</p></td>
<td><p>Oct. 11, 2016</p></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>Sep. 21, 2016</p></td>
<td><p>Motion: To move November 9th meeting to November 10th.</p></td>
<td><p>In Favor: Unanimous vote</p></td>
<td><p>Against: None</p></td>
<td><p>Pass: 6-0</p></td>
<td><p>Sep. 21, 2016</p></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Sep. 21, 2016</p></td>
<td><p>Motion: To continue conversation on 7 related competitions to catch the flag for students, Tom Brennan motions.</p></td>
<td><p>In Favor: Andrew van der Stock, Michael Coates, Josh Sokol, Matt Konda and Tobias Gondrom)</p></td>
<td><p>Against: None</p></td>
<td><p>Pass: 5-0</p></td>
<td><p>Sep. 21, 2016</p></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>Aug. 23, 2016</p></td>
<td><p>Motion: To move forward with an educational training platform.</p></td>
<td><p>In Favor: 6</p></td>
<td><p>Against: None</p></td>
<td><p>Pass: 6-0 (Motion to move forward but needs a formal proposal and revenue models.)</p></td>
<td><p>Aug. 23, 2016</p></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>July 1, 2016</p></td>
<td><p>Motion: Board to approve meeting minutes from May, 2016. Tobias motions, Tom seconds.</p></td>
<td><p>In Favor: 6 Approved</p></td>
<td><p>Against: None</p></td>
<td><p>Pass. By Unanimous consent</p></td>
<td><p>July 1, 2016</p></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>July 1, 2016</p></td>
<td><p>Motion: Change Global event splits to a 90/10 split Tom motions, Andrew seconds.</p></td>
<td><p>In Favor: 4 (Tom Brennan, Tobias Gondrom, Andrew van der Stock, Matt Konda)</p></td>
<td><p>Against: 2 (Michael Coates, Josh Sokol)</p></td>
<td><p>Pass. 4-2</p></td>
<td><p>July 1, 2016</p></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>July 1, 2016</p></td>
<td><p>Motion: Change Global event splits to a 85/15 split. Josh motions, Tom seconds.</p></td>
<td><p>In Favor: 1 (Josh Sokol)</p></td>
<td><p>Against: 5 (Tom Brennan, Tobias Gondrom, Andrew van der Stock, Matt Konda, Michael Coates)</p></td>
<td><p>No Pass. 1-5</p></td>
<td><p>July 1, 2016</p></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>July 1, 2016</p></td>
<td><p>Motion: Appoint Tobias as OWASP Secretary. Matt K. motions, Josh seconds.</p></td>
<td><p>In Favor: 1 (Tom Brennan, Tobias Gondrom, Andrew van der Stock, Matt Konda, Michael Coates, Josh Sokol)</p></td>
<td><p>Against: 0</p></td>
<td><p>Pass. Unanimous vote</p></td>
<td><p>July 1, 2016</p></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>July 1, 2016</p></td>
<td><p>Motion: Fill the casual vacancy created by Jim Manico's resignation through end of Jim's term (12/31.2016). Andrew motions, Tom seconds.</p></td>
<td><p>In Favor: 5 (Tom Brennan, Tobias Gondrom, Andrew van der Stock, Matt Konda, Michael Coates)</p></td>
<td><p>Against: 1 (Josh Sokol)</p></td>
<td><p>Pass. 5-1</p></td>
<td><p>July 1, 2016</p></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>July 1, 2016</p></td>
<td><p>Motion: Approve 2016 draft budget as origionaly proposed with the understanding that the treasurer will provide an update at the August board meeting. Josh motions, Tom seconds.</p></td>
<td><p>In Favor: 6 (Tom Brennan, Tobias Gondrom, Andrew van der Stock, Matt Konda, Michael Coates, Josh Sokol)</p></td>
<td><p>Against: 0</p></td>
<td><p>Pass. Unanimous vote</p></td>
<td><p>July 1, 2016</p></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>May 18, 2016</p></td>
<td><p>Motion: Move OWASP banking from Capital One to Citizens</p></td>
<td><p>In Favor: 6 (Tobias Gondrom, Andrew van der Stock, Matt Konda, Michael Coates)</p></td>
<td><p>Against: 1 Tom Brennan Abstain: 1 Josh Sokol</p></td>
<td><p>Pass. 4 -1 - 1</p></td>
<td><p>May 18, 2016</p></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>April 20, 2016</p></td>
<td><p>Motion: Continue with and promote a sponsor logo program.</p></td>
<td><p>In Favor: 7 (Tom Brennan, Tobias Gondrom, Andrew van der Stock, Matt Konda, Michael Coates, Josh Sokol, Jim Manico)</p></td>
<td><p>Against: 0</p></td>
<td><p>Pass. Unanimous vote</p></td>
<td><p>April 20, 2016</p></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>April 20, 2016</p></td>
<td><p>Motion: Give Matt Tesauro an OWASP Credit card.</p></td>
<td><p>In Favor: 6 (Tom Brennan, Andrew van der Stock, Matt Konda, Michael Coates, Josh Sokol)</p></td>
<td><p>Against: 0 Abstain: 1 - Tobias Gondrom</p></td>
<td><p>Pass. 6</p></td>
<td><p>April 20, 2016</p></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>April 20, 2016</p></td>
<td><p>Motion: Approve funding for up to $200/month (good for 50 GB/month) of Paper Trail Services</p></td>
<td><p>In Favor: 7 (Tom Brennan, Tobias Gondrom, Andrew van der Stock, Matt Konda, Michael Coates, Josh Sokol, Jim Manico)</p></td>
<td><p>Against: 0</p></td>
<td><p>Pass. Unanimous vote</p></td>
<td><p>April 20, 2016</p></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>April 20, 2016</p></td>
<td><p>Motion: Investigate funding a part-time/contractor System Administrator resource to aid in managing and securing OWASP's infrastructure</p></td>
<td><p>In Favor: 7 (Tom Brennan, Tobias Gondrom, Andrew van der Stock, Matt Konda, Michael Coates, Josh Sokol, Jim Manico)</p></td>
<td><p>Against: 0</p></td>
<td><p>Pass. Unanimous vote</p></td>
<td><p>April 20, 2016</p></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>Feb. 17, 2016</p></td>
<td><p>Motion: Board to approve meeting minutes from January 13, 2016</p></td>
<td><p>In Favor: 6 Approved, Jim M not present</p></td>
<td><p>Against: None</p></td>
<td><p>Pass. By Unanimous consent</p></td>
<td><p>Feb. 17, 2016</p></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Jan.13, 2016</p></td>
<td><p>Motion: Board to approve and lock in the 5 strategic goals for 2016, their objectives and the budgets allocated as ‘interim budget goals’. Budgets may be adjusted as needed based on program, during the year. Josh moves, Tom B seconds.</p></td>
<td><p>In favor: 6 Approved in favor. Andrew left call, no vote entered.</p></td>
<td><p>Against: None</p></td>
<td><p>Pass.</p></td>
<td><p>Jan.13, 2016</p></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>Dec.9, 2015</p></td>
<td><p>Motion: OWASP Foundation Board acknowledges and confirms the appointment of 4 Board members for the OWASP EU VZW legal entity. EU Board member term to begin January 2016. New Board members fill the openings created when Seba &amp; Eoin ended their term of service. New EU Board members are Tobias Gondrum, Adrian Winckles, Gary Robinson, Maarten Mestdagh</p></td>
<td><p>In favor: 6 Approved in favor. Jim M not attending.</p></td>
<td><p>Against: None</p></td>
<td><p>Pass.</p></td>
<td><p>Dec.9, 2015</p></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Dec.9, 2015</p></td>
<td><p>Motion: Board to approve meeting minutes from Oct. 14, Nov. 4 and Nov. 18.</p></td>
<td><p>In favor: 6 Approved in favor. Jim M not attending.</p></td>
<td><p>Against: None</p></td>
<td><p>Pass.</p></td>
<td><p>Dec.9, 2015</p></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>Dec.9, 2015</p></td>
<td><p>Motion: Board to approve following changes to Projects. 1). Explicit project rule that Lab and Flagship level projects must have more than one leader. 2). Lab and Flagship projects that are rating the effectiveness of tools need to have a perceived independence amongst the project leaders as perceived by the reviewers. Andrew moves, Matt K seconds</p></td>
<td><p>In favor: 6 Approved in favor. Jim M not attending.</p></td>
<td><p>Against: None</p></td>
<td><p>Pass.</p></td>
<td><p>Dec.9, 2015</p></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Dec.9, 2015</p></td>
<td><p>Motion: Board agrees to move Benchmark project from Lab to Incubator status to allow more time for further development and community participation. Andrew moves, Matt K seconds</p></td>
<td><p>In favor: 5 Approved. Jim M not attending.</p></td>
<td><p>Against: 1</p></td>
<td><p>Pass.</p></td>
<td><p>Dec.9, 2015</p></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>Dec.9, 2015</p></td>
<td><p>Motion: Motion that At-Large Board members will be allocated one of three strategic focus areas, that being governance, projects, and chapters. Josh moves, Andrew seconds</p></td>
<td><p>In favor: 4 Approved. Jim M not attending.</p></td>
<td><p>Against: 2</p></td>
<td><p>Pass.</p></td>
<td><p>Dec.9, 2015</p></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Dec.9, 2015</p></td>
<td><p>Motion: Motion to approve an OWASP Audit Committee per proposal from Andrew. Andrew moves, Josh seconds</p></td>
<td><p>In favor: 6 Jim M not attending.</p></td>
<td><p>Against: 0</p></td>
<td><p>Pass.</p></td>
<td><p>Dec.9, 2015</p></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>Nov. 4, 2015</p></td>
<td><p>Motion: Motion to approve up to $25K for a functionality assessment of the OWASP website, applications and project platform to determine its current effectiveness for the OWASP Community. RFP to be sent out with focus on companies with experience in nonprofit and Sales Force integrations. Matt moves to approve, Josh seconds.</p></td>
<td><p>In favor: All 7 BoD Approved</p></td>
<td><p>Against: None</p></td>
<td><p>Pass.</p></td>
<td><p>Nov. 4, 2015</p></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Nov. 4, 2015</p></td>
<td><p>Motion: Motion to approve the October 14, 2015 Board meeting minutes. Josh moves to approve, Matt seconds.</p></td>
<td><p>In favor: Approved by unanimous consent</p></td>
<td><p>Against: None</p></td>
<td><p>Pass.</p></td>
<td><p>Nov. 4, 2015</p></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>Oct. 14, 2015</p></td>
<td><p>Motion: P2 - There should be no such thing as negative account balances for chapters or projects going forward. If the intent is to spend more money than is currently in the account, the money should be taken and approved from Foundation funding sources, subject to Foundation approval.</p></td>
<td><p>In favor: <a href="https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/13Hk1A_-yDt40leZxhIt8Gg84BLWHGXbR1YKyxWv8Iw0/edit?usp=sharing">See voting record table</a></p></td>
<td><p>Against: See voting record</p></td>
<td><p>Pass.</p></td>
<td><p>Oct. 14, 2015</p></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Oct. 14, 2015</p></td>
<td><p>Motion: P3 - All accounts belonging to active chapters and projects, as defined in the Chapter and Project Handbooks respectively, with balances less than $500, will be brought to $500 beginning January 1, 2016 as long as there are at least two active leaders at that time.</p></td>
<td><p>In favor: <a href="https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/13Hk1A_-yDt40leZxhIt8Gg84BLWHGXbR1YKyxWv8Iw0/edit?usp=sharing">See voting record table</a></p></td>
<td><p>Against: See voting record</p></td>
<td><p>Pass.</p></td>
<td><p>Oct. 14, 2015</p></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>Oct. 14, 2015</p></td>
<td><p>Motion: P4 - Upon creation of a new project or chapter, as long as they have at least two leaders they will be allocated a $500 budget to begin with</p></td>
<td><p>In favor: <a href="https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/13Hk1A_-yDt40leZxhIt8Gg84BLWHGXbR1YKyxWv8Iw0/edit?usp=sharing">See voting record table</a></p></td>
<td><p>Against: See voting record</p></td>
<td><p>Pass.</p></td>
<td><p>Oct. 14, 2015</p></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Oct. 14, 2015</p></td>
<td><p>Motion: P5 - All requests for funding, who proposed the request, relevant discussions, votes around funding, and request approval/denial are a matter of public record and must be put in a public location that is easily accessible to the OWASP community.</p></td>
<td><p>In favor: <a href="https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/13Hk1A_-yDt40leZxhIt8Gg84BLWHGXbR1YKyxWv8Iw0/edit?usp=sharing">See voting record table</a></p></td>
<td><p>Against: See voting record</p></td>
<td><p>Pass.</p></td>
<td><p>Oct. 14, 2015</p></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>Oct. 14, 2015</p></td>
<td><p>Motion: P6 - If a request for funding has been approved for one chapter or project, then it can be considered an acceptable expense for all chapters or projects. If they have an account balance which covers that expense in full, then they should be considered pre-approved for spending. Status = Approved via email vote completed on Oct. 19. 2015</p></td>
<td><p>In favor: <a href="https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/13Hk1A_-yDt40leZxhIt8Gg84BLWHGXbR1YKyxWv8Iw0/edit?usp=sharing">See voting record table</a></p></td>
<td><p>Against: See voting record</p></td>
<td><p>Pass.</p></td>
<td><p>Oct. 19, 2015</p></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Oct. 14, 2015</p></td>
<td><p>Motion: P7 - The OWASP Foundation Staff will be responsible for notifying all chapters and projects of their available account balance on at least a monthly basis. The notification should also include a reference to where they can go to find the list of pre-approved expenses.</p></td>
<td><p>In favor: <a href="https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/13Hk1A_-yDt40leZxhIt8Gg84BLWHGXbR1YKyxWv8Iw0/edit?usp=sharing">See voting record table</a></p></td>
<td><p>Against: See voting record</p></td>
<td><p>Pass.</p></td>
<td><p>Oct. 14, 2015</p></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>Oct. 14, 2015</p></td>
<td><p>Motion: P8 - Chapters and projects with $5,000 or more in their account on October 1 are required to create a budget and provide it to the OWASP Foundation prior to November 1 (December 1 for 2015) for inclusion in the Foundation budget for the following calendar year. The budget should identify how they plan to spend the money in their account over the course of the next year. A future projection budget can be included as well for forecasted spending within the next 2 years.</p></td>
<td><p>In favor: <a href="https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/13Hk1A_-yDt40leZxhIt8Gg84BLWHGXbR1YKyxWv8Iw0/edit?usp=sharing">See voting record table</a></p></td>
<td><p>Against: See voting record</p></td>
<td><p>Pass.</p></td>
<td><p>Oct. 14, 2015</p></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Oct. 14, 2015</p></td>
<td><p>Motion: P9 - Separate from the aforementioned budgeting process for chapter and project accounts, any OWASP Leader can create a budget and provide it to the OWASP Board prior to November 1 for inclusion in the Foundation budget planning process. The budget would be reviewed by the Executive Director and Board, and, if approved, incorporated into the overall OWASP Foundation budget for the following year. This would effectively set aside the funds to use at the appropriate period of time, in the future, with no further approvals necessary. Money that is budgeted in this manner, that wasn’t spent during the calendar year, would be returned back to the OWASP Foundation general funds.</p></td>
<td><p>In favor: <a href="https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/13Hk1A_-yDt40leZxhIt8Gg84BLWHGXbR1YKyxWv8Iw0/edit?usp=sharing">See voting record table</a></p></td>
<td><p>Against: See voting record</p></td>
<td><p>Pass.</p></td>
<td><p>Oct. 14, 2015</p></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>Oct. 14, 2015</p></td>
<td><p>Motion: P10 - Accounts with a balance of $5,000 or more as of December 1, with no proposed budget for spending their funds, will be contacted by the OWASP staff directly to review their account balance. The chapter will be required to create a budget to allocate the funds for the upcoming year. Unbudgeted funds may be diverted to other project(s), chapter(s), or Community Engagement Funding accounts if the chapter cannot be contacted or a budget is not received prior to January 1.</p></td>
<td><p>In favor: <a href="https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/13Hk1A_-yDt40leZxhIt8Gg84BLWHGXbR1YKyxWv8Iw0/edit?usp=sharing">See voting record table</a></p></td>
<td><p>Against: See voting record</p></td>
<td><p>Pass.</p></td>
<td><p>Oct. 14, 2015</p></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Oct. 14, 2015</p></td>
<td><p>Motion: P11 - Any project newly reaching lab status with an account balance less than $500 will be brought to $500 as long as there are at least two active leaders at that time. Any project newly reaching flagship status with an account balance less than $1000 will be brought to $1000 as long as there are at least two active leaders at that time.</p></td>
<td><p>In favor: <a href="https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/13Hk1A_-yDt40leZxhIt8Gg84BLWHGXbR1YKyxWv8Iw0/edit?usp=sharing">See voting record table</a></p></td>
<td><p>Against: See voting record</p></td>
<td><p>Pass.</p></td>
<td><p>Oct. 14, 2015</p></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>Oct. 14, 2015</p></td>
<td><p>Motion: Motion to approve Sept. 25 Board minutes. Moved by Tobias, Seconded by Matt.</p></td>
<td><p>In favor = All in favor by unanimous consent.</p></td>
<td><p>Against: None.</p></td>
<td><p>Pass.</p></td>
<td><p>Oct. 14, 2015</p></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Sept.25, 2015</p></td>
<td><p>Motion: Motion to forgive negative balances on Chapter or Project budgets. Moved by Josh, Seconded by Jim</p></td>
<td><p>In favor = Fabio, Tobias, Josh, Jim, Matt, Michael, Andrew</p></td>
<td><p>Against: None.</p></td>
<td><p>Pass.</p></td>
<td><p>Sept. 25, 2015</p></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>Sept.25, 2015</p></td>
<td><p>Motion: Motion to update section 3.03 of OWASP Bylaws re: Board Attendance. Moved by Jim, Seconded by Andrew</p></td>
<td><p>In favor = Fabio, Tobias, Josh, Jim, Matt, Michael, Andrew</p></td>
<td><p>Against: None.</p></td>
<td><p>Pass.</p></td>
<td><p>Sept. 25, 2015</p></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>August 24, 2015</p></td>
<td><p>Automatic vote of confidence requirement per Bylaws when attendance falls below 75%. Fabio attendance &lt;75%.</p></td>
<td><p>Vote in Confidence for Fabio continued participation at Board level = 6, Tobias, Josh, Jim, Michael, Andrew, Fabio</p></td>
<td><p>Against: None. Abstain = 1, Matt K.</p></td>
<td><p>Vote Passes in favor or in confidence for Fabio.</p></td>
<td><p>August 24, 2015</p></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>July 22, 2015</p></td>
<td><p>Motion: Motion to approve June 24 Board minutes. Moved by Josh, Seconded by Matt</p></td>
<td><p>In favor = Fabio, Tobias, Josh, Jim, Matt, Michael</p></td>
<td><p>Against: None. Absent = Andrew</p></td>
<td><p>Pass.</p></td>
<td><p>July 22, 2015</p></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>June 24, 2015</p></td>
<td><p>Motion: Motion to approve $10K investment from Foundation to fund a Project Summit during AppSecUSA in San Francisco. Moved by Josh, Seconded by Jim</p></td>
<td><p>In favor = Andrew, Fabio, Tobias, Josh, Jim, Matt</p></td>
<td><p>Against: None. Absent = Michael</p></td>
<td><p>Pass.</p></td>
<td><p>June 24, 2015</p></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>May 22, 2015</p></td>
<td><p>Motion: Motion to “Move forward with already ‘in progress training contract’ for finding and helping to select OWASP PCI training vendor for a private partner on a one time basis". Moved by Andrew, Seconded by Fabio</p></td>
<td><p>In favor = Andrew, Fabio, Tobias</p></td>
<td><p>Against: Josh, Matt. Abstain = Jim</p></td>
<td><p>Pass. Motion passes by 3 to 2 vote with one abstention.</p></td>
<td><p>May 22, 2015</p></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>May 22, 2015</p></td>
<td><p>Motion: Approve Minutes from April 29, 2015 Board meeting. Jim moves, Andrew seconds</p></td>
<td><p>All 6 Board Members in attendance approve. Motion passes.</p></td>
<td><p>Against: None</p></td>
<td><p>Pass</p></td>
<td><p>May 22, 2015</p></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>May 5, 2015</p></td>
<td><p>Motion: Should Bylaws be updated in Section 3.03-Regular Meetings with clarifying language about 75% attendance requirements as proposed by Bill Corry. Yes, or No? Motion by Josh, seconded by Jim. Exact language posted to May 22 Board minutes.</p></td>
<td><p>E-Vote performed via email. All 7 Board Members consent to evote &amp; all 7 vote Yes. Motion passes.</p></td>
<td><p>Against: None</p></td>
<td><p>Pass</p></td>
<td><p>May 5, 2015</p></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Apr 29, 2015</p></td>
<td><p>Motion: Approve Minutes from March 25 Board meeting Yes, or No? Motion by Tobias, seconded by Josh.</p></td>
<td><p>Motion passes with 6 approvals. 6 Board members in attendance.</p></td>
<td><p>Against: None</p></td>
<td><p>Pass</p></td>
<td><p>Apr 29, 2015</p></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>Apr 29, 2015</p></td>
<td><p>Motion: Approve the appointment of Martin as Compliance Officer for 2015. Yes, or No? Motion by Josh, seconded by Jim.</p></td>
<td><p>Motion passes with 6 approvals. 6 Board members in attendance.</p></td>
<td><p>Against: None</p></td>
<td><p>Pass</p></td>
<td><p>Apr 29, 2015</p></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Apr 29, 2015</p></td>
<td><p>Motion: Should Board approve the updated proposal on process and funding for a Summer of Code program? Yes, or No? Motion by Fabio to call the vote, seconded by Matt.</p></td>
<td><p>Motion passes by majority vote with 3 approvals, 2 against. Quorum present with 5 Board members in attendance.</p></td>
<td><p>Against: Two</p></td>
<td><p>Pass = Yes</p></td>
<td><p>Apr 29, 2015</p></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>Apr 7, 2015</p></td>
<td><p>Motion: Hire Paul Ritchie as our full-time Executive Director and approve a formal offer to hire him.</p></td>
<td><p>Motion passes per evote (via email) with 7 approvals.</p></td>
<td><p>Against: None</p></td>
<td><p>Pass</p></td>
<td><p>Apr 7, 2015</p></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Mar. 25, 2015</p></td>
<td><p>Motion: Allow Corporate Members to make or change their allocations to Project or Chapter from their annual membership fees on an annual basis. Current policy is static or fixed for 3 year term. Yes, or No? Motion by Josh, seconded by Jim.</p></td>
<td><p>Motion passes with 6 approvals</p></td>
<td><p>Against: None</p></td>
<td><p>Pass</p></td>
<td><p>Mar. 25 2015</p></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>Mar. 25, 2015</p></td>
<td><p>Motion: Should OWASP enter into an agreement directly with Insperity to provide payroll and HR services to OWASP employees? Motion by Josh, seconded by Jim.</p></td>
<td><p>Motion passes with 6 approvals</p></td>
<td><p>Against: None</p></td>
<td><p>Pass</p></td>
<td><p>Mar. 25 2015</p></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>Mar. 25, 2015</p></td>
<td><p>Motion: HR and Payroll administration to be handled by OWASP Staff rather than 3rd party Association Mgmt firm now that Insperity contract is direct with OWASP, Yes or No? Motion by Josh, seconded by Michael.</p></td>
<td><p>Motion passes with 6 approvals</p></td>
<td><p>Against: None</p></td>
<td><p>Pass</p></td>
<td><p>Mar. 25 2015</p></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Mar. 25, 2015</p></td>
<td><p>Motion to approve February 11 2015 Board meeting minutes. Motion by Jim, seconded by Michael.</p></td>
<td><p>Motion passes with 6 approvals</p></td>
<td><p>Against: None</p></td>
<td><p>Pass</p></td>
<td><p>Mar. 25 2015</p></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Jan. 21, 2015</p></td>
<td><p>Motion to approve 1 month extension for Executive Director services, Feb. 1-28, 2015. Motion by Tobias, seconded by Jim. Vote conducted via email.</p></td>
<td><p>Motion passes with 7 approvals</p></td>
<td><p>Against: None</p></td>
<td><p>Pass</p></td>
<td><p>Jan. 28, 2015</p></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>Jan. 14, 2015</p></td>
<td><p>Motion to approve Dec.10,2014 Board meeting minutes. Motion by Tobias, seconded by Josh.</p></td>
<td><p>Motion passes with 6 approvals</p></td>
<td><p>Against: None, Fabio arrived late</p></td>
<td><p>Pass</p></td>
<td><p>Jan. 14, 2015</p></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Jan. 14, 2015</p></td>
<td><p>Motion to accept officer positions for 2015 as voted on during December. Outgoing Board member Eoin provided conducted the selection process. Motion by Tobias, seconded by Matt</p></td>
<td><p>Motion passes with 6 approvals</p></td>
<td><p>Against: None, Fabio arrived late</p></td>
<td><p>Pass</p></td>
<td><p>Jan. 14, 2015</p></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>Dec. 10, 2014</p></td>
<td><p>Motion to hold separate meeting on 2015 Strategic Goals &amp; budget to allow greater time for discussion. Motion by Tobias, seconded by Josh.</p></td>
<td><p>Motion passes with 6 approvals</p></td>
<td><p>Against: None, Tom absent</p></td>
<td><p>Pass</p></td>
<td><p>Dec. 10, 2014</p></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Dec. 10, 2014</p></td>
<td><p>Motion to approve the updated Whistleblower policy. Motion by Josh, seconded by Tobias.</p></td>
<td><p>Motion passes with 6 approvals</p></td>
<td><p>Against: None, Tom absent</p></td>
<td><p>Pass</p></td>
<td><p>Dec. 10, 2014</p></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>Dec. 10, 2014</p></td>
<td><p>Motion (Michael) to approve all three sets of Board meeting minutes (September, October and November 2014). Seconded (Tom).</p></td>
<td><p>Motion passes with full approval</p></td>
<td><p>Against: None</p></td>
<td><p>Pass</p></td>
<td><p>Dec. 10, 2014</p></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Nov. 12, 2014</p></td>
<td><p>Motion to approve 2013 Tax Forms as prepared by KPMG and to authorize KPMG to e-file tax forms on OWASP behalf. (Motion by Josh, Second by Tobias)</p></td>
<td><p>Jim, Josh, Tom, Tobias</p></td>
<td><p>Against: none (only 4 Members attending)</p></td>
<td><p>Pass</p></td>
<td><p>Nov. 12, 2014</p></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>Oct. 8, 2014</p></td>
<td><p>Motion to approve Projects Committee 2.0 (Motion by Josh, Second by Jim)</p></td>
<td><p>Jim, Josh, Michael, Fabio, Tobias</p></td>
<td><p>Against: none (only 5 Members attending)</p></td>
<td><p>Pass</p></td>
<td><p>Oct. 8, 2014</p></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Sept 16, 2014</p></td>
<td><p>Motion to change profit split for Local &amp; Regional Events to 90% Chapter / 10% Foundation - no cap - beginning 2015 (Motion by Josh, second Jim)</p></td>
<td><p>Josh, Jim, Tom, Tobias</p></td>
<td><p>Against: Michael, Fabio. Abstain: Eoin</p></td>
<td><p>Pass - This motion now supercedes and replaces the prior approved motion at 75/25 split.</p></td>
<td><p>Sept. 16, 2014</p></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>Sept 16, 2014</p></td>
<td><p>Motion to change profit split for Local &amp; Regional Events to 75% Chapter / 25% Foundation - no cap - beginning 2015 (Motion by Tom, second Fabio)</p></td>
<td><p>Fabio, Michael, Eoin, Tom</p></td>
<td><p>Against: Josh, Jim, Tobias</p></td>
<td><p>Pass</p></td>
<td><p>Sept. 16, 2014</p></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Sept 16, 2014</p></td>
<td><p>Motion to allocate $12,000 of Community Engagement funds for 2014 AsiaPac Tour (Motion by Jim, second Tobias)</p></td>
<td><p>Fabio, Michael, Tobias, Jim, Eoin</p></td>
<td><p>Against: Josh,Tom</p></td>
<td><p>Pass</p></td>
<td><p>Sept. 16, 2014</p></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>Sept 16, 2014</p></td>
<td><p>Motion to proceed forward with Committee 2.0 process for Project Committee as proposed by Johanna. (Motion by Tobias, second Jim)</p></td>
<td><p>All</p></td>
<td><p>Against: none</p></td>
<td><p>Pass by unanimous consent</p></td>
<td><p>Sept. 16, 2014</p></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Sept 16, 2014</p></td>
<td><p>Issue: Should OWASP consider providing shared hosting to some set of projects or chapters. How to handle requests for sub-domains? <strong>Motion</strong> - All owasp.org subdomains that do exist will be on owasp foundation controlled servers. (Motion by Josh, second Tom)</p></td>
<td><p>All</p></td>
<td><p>Against: none</p></td>
<td><p>Pass by unanimous consent</p></td>
<td><p>Sept. 16, 2014</p></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>August 13, 2014</p></td>
<td><p>Motion - Board to authorize Paul Ritchie, OWASP Interim Executive Director to have Executive Director duties for financial oversight including review, approve, signature authority and release of funds for various financial obligations in accordance with the OWASP accounting &amp; signatory policies. (Motion by Jim, second by Tobias)</p></td>
<td><p>Jim, Michael, Eoin, Tom, Fabio, Tobias</p></td>
<td><p>Against: none (6 members attending)</p></td>
<td><p>Pass</p></td>
<td><p>August 13, 2014</p></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>July 11, 2014</p></td>
<td><p>Motion to establish committees 2.0 (link to the document: <a href="https://www.owasp.org/index.php/Governance/OWASP_Committees">OWASP Committees</a>), to reestablish committees and empower the community. (Motion by Josh, Second by Michael)</p></td>
<td><p>Josh, Michael, Jim, Eoin, Fabio</p></td>
<td><p>Against: Tobias, Tom</p></td>
<td><p>Pass</p></td>
<td><p>July 18, 2014</p></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>April 30, 2014</p></td>
<td><p>Motion to demote all OWASP flagship projects to labs as an interim step in reevaluating project status and infrastructure.</p></td>
<td><p>Josh, Tom, Jim, Tobias, Michael</p></td>
<td><p>-</p></td>
<td><p>Pass</p></td>
<td><p>April 30, 2014</p></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>April 30, 2014</p></td>
<td><p>Motion to move forward with using KPMG for international accounting, including engagement for the Belgian entity taxes and advice</p></td>
<td><p>Josh, Tom, Eoin, Jim, Tobias, Michael</p></td>
<td><p>-</p></td>
<td><p>Pass</p></td>
<td><p>April 30, 2014</p></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>April 30, 2014</p></td>
<td><p>Motion to turn off the community (social media) functionality of the portal (not the portal itself), initiate a plan of requirements and research for social engagement by the community</p></td>
<td><p>Josh, Tom, Eoin, Jim, Tobias</p></td>
<td><p>Michael</p></td>
<td><p>Pass</p></td>
<td><p>April 30, 2014</p></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>March 3, 2014</p></td>
<td><p><a href="http://lists.owasp.org/pipermail/owasp-board/2014-March/013310.html">Proposal: Add a new section to the OWASP Bylaws.</a> SECTION 4.07 Participation. Participation in OWASP activities (conferences, meetings, mailings lists, projects, etc) does not require membership, but is subject to adherence to the OWASP Code of Ethics, and OWASP leaders may revoke the privilege of participation to those who choose not to abide by that code. Notification of such a revocation must be made to the individual in writing, with the OWASP Board of Directors CC’d for inclusion in the Foundation records. If an individual believes that this revocation is unjustified, then they have the option to appeal the decision by notifying the OWASP Board of Directors in writing within 14 days of the original notification.</p></td>
<td><p>Michael, Josh, Tom, Eoin, Jim, Tobias, Fabio</p></td>
<td><p>-</p></td>
<td><p>Pass</p></td>
<td><p>March 31, 2014</p></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>February 24, 2014</p></td>
<td><p><a href="https://docs.google.com/a/owasp.org/document/d/1KFYa4r6mMFbUWEfe0C3lDHe3j051paEze0toAgliavs/edit">Motion to modify the OWASP Bylaws section 4.02 to include in good-standing subject to our code of ethics”</a></p></td>
<td><p>Michael, Josh, Tom, Eoin, Jim, Tobias</p></td>
<td><p>Fabio (no vote received)</p></td>
<td><p>Pass</p></td>
<td><p>February 24, 2014</p></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>February 24, 2014</p></td>
<td><p><a href="https://docs.google.com/a/owasp.org/document/d/1KFYa4r6mMFbUWEfe0C3lDHe3j051paEze0toAgliavs/edit">Motion to modify all public facing text regarding the Google Hacking Inquiry</a></p></td>
<td><p>Michael, Josh, Tom, Fabio, Eoin, Jim, Tobias</p></td>
<td><p>-</p></td>
<td><p>Pass</p></td>
<td><p>February 24, 2014</p></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>February 24, 2014</p></td>
<td><p><a href="https://www.owasp.org/index.php/OWASP_Strategic_Goals#tab=2014">2014 OWASP Foundation Strategic Goals</a></p></td>
<td><p>Michael, Josh, Tom, Fabio, Eoin, Jim, Tobias</p></td>
<td><p>-</p></td>
<td><p>Pass</p></td>
<td><p>February 24, 2014</p></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>January 27, 2014</p></td>
<td><p>"Shall OWASP release the proposed statement?" <a href="OWASP_Statement_on_the_Security_of_the_Internet_2014" title="wikilink">OWASP Statement on the Security of the Internet 2014</a> (Yes/Affirm or No/Against)</p></td>
<td><p>Michael, Josh, Tom, Fabio, Eoin, Jim, Tobias</p></td>
<td><p>-</p></td>
<td><p>Pass</p></td>
<td><p>January 27th (6 votes cast) - February 2nd (1 remaining vote cast), 2014</p></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>January 7, 2014</p></td>
<td><p>OWASP will terminate the co-marketing agreement with RSA for RSA 2014. This may place our training at risk, but if permitted we will still provide the free training at RSA and the OWASP speaking slot. <a href="http://lists.owasp.org/pipermail/owasp-board/2014-January/012919.html">vote on mailing list</a> (Yes/Affirm or No/Against)</p></td>
<td><p>Michael, Josh, Tobias</p></td>
<td><p>No - Tom, Fabio<br />
Abstain - Eoin, Jim</p></td>
<td><p>Pass</p></td>
<td><p>January 7, 2014</p></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>December 16, 2013</p></td>
<td><p>Compliance Officer per <a href="https://www.owasp.org/index.php/Governance/Whistleblower_Policy">Whistleblower Policy</a> for 2014 - Martin Knobloch, <a href="http://lists.owasp.org/pipermail/owasp-board/2013-December/012790.html">vote on mailing list</a></p></td>
<td><p>Tom, Seba, Dave, Michael, Jim, Eoin</p></td>
<td></td>
<td><p>Pass (Unanimous)</p></td>
<td><p>December 29, 2013</p></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>December 16, 2013</p></td>
<td><p><a href="https://docs.google.com/a/owasp.org/spreadsheet/ccc?key=0ApZ9zE0hx0LNdGdJZ1BIaEZkc2V1QV81NmJ4dnI0R1E&amp;usp=drive_web#gid=0">Approval of 2014 Annual Foundation Budget</a></p></td>
<td><p>Seba, Dave, Michael, Jim, Eoin</p></td>
<td><p>No vote received: Tom</p></td>
<td><p>Pass</p></td>
<td><p>December 17, 2013</p></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>December 13, 2013</p></td>
<td><p><a href="https://docs.google.com/a/owasp.org/document/d/1yDTFCdmmZN3t732sqHTOFHMhQrXgUC46YbgDhGROcXM/edit">Vote to approve going forward with Fonteva Member Nation Portal Proposal</a></p></td>
<td><p>Seba, Dave, Michael, Jim, Tom</p></td>
<td><p>No vote received: Eoin</p></td>
<td><p>Pass</p></td>
<td><p>December 16, 2013</p></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>December 9, 2013</p></td>
<td><p><a href="https://docs.google.com/a/owasp.org/document/d/1yX68nS20qj7QNTcDkKCD3hSfFEbJaBKjoWjc2wF_aLA/edit">Grant Spending Policy</a></p></td>
<td><p>Seba, Jim, Tom, Michael</p></td>
<td><p>No vote received: Dave, Eoin</p></td>
<td><p>Pass</p></td>
<td><p>December 9, 2013</p></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>December 9, 2013</p></td>
<td><p><a href="https://docs.google.com/a/owasp.org/document/d/15XuKIezpBpNH4BQYwSJ8i9125ga8IBE0IpvkO14RukI/edit">Project Spending Policy</a></p></td>
<td><p>Seba, Jim, Tom, Michael</p></td>
<td><p>No vote received: Dave, Eoin</p></td>
<td><p>Pass</p></td>
<td><p>December 9, 2013</p></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>December 9, 2013</p></td>
<td><p><a href="https://docs.google.com/a/owasp.org/document/d/1ADEy8NhgIqi5vyV0JSvOfeIqfIRQSzlOCLCmhEuPAWA/edit">New Project Sponsorship Model</a></p></td>
<td><p>Seba, Jim, Tom, Michael</p></td>
<td><p>No vote received: Dave, Eoin</p></td>
<td><p>Pass</p></td>
<td><p>December 9, 2013</p></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>December 9, 2013</p></td>
<td><p><a href="https://www.owasp.org/index.php/Governance/CorporateSponsorship">Tiered Corporate Membership Model</a></p></td>
<td><p>Seba, Jim, Tom, Michael</p></td>
<td><p>No vote received: Dave, Eoin</p></td>
<td><p>Pass</p></td>
<td><p>December 9, 2013</p></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>October 30, 2013</p></td>
<td><p><a href="https://www.owasp.org/index.php/Governance/Board_Commitment_Agreement">Board Orientation Agreement</a> and <a href="https://www.owasp.org/index.php/Governance/Board_Code_of_Conduct">Board Code of Conduct</a></p></td>
<td><p>Tom, Jim, Seba, Michael, Eoin</p></td>
<td><p>No vote received: Dave</p></td>
<td><p>Pass</p></td>
<td><p>November 8, 2013</p></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>October 30, 2013</p></td>
<td><p><a href="https://www.owasp.org/index.php/Governance/Whistleblower_Policy">OWASP Whistleblower and Anti-Retaliation Policy</a></p></td>
<td><p>Tom, Jim, Seba, Michael, Dave, Eoin</p></td>
<td></td>
<td><p>Pass</p></td>
<td><p>November 5, 2013</p></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>October 30, 2013</p></td>
<td><p><a href="https://www.owasp.org/index.php/Governance/Social_Media_Policy">OWASP Social Media Policy</a></p></td>
<td><p>Tom, Jim, Seba, Eoin, Michael, Dave</p></td>
<td></td>
<td><p>Pass</p></td>
<td><p>November 4, 2013</p></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>October 30, 2013</p></td>
<td><p><a href="https://www.owasp.org/index.php/Governance/Conflict_of_Interest_Policy">OWASP Conflict of Interest Policy and Annual Questionnaire</a> - applying to Global Board Members and Employees</p></td>
<td><p>Tom, Jim, Michael, Seba, Eoin, Dave</p></td>
<td></td>
<td><p>Pass</p></td>
<td><p>November 4, 2013</p></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>August 19, 2013</p></td>
<td><p>OWASP Board Size: OWASP bylaws specify the board must be between 5 and 7 members. Vote to extend to 7 members. The 2013 election will now seat 4 spots instead of 3. The newly elected board members will begin their terms Jan 1, 2014.<a href="https://docs.google.com/a/owasp.org/document/d/1cYsp608TDiNfdLv60mePuCjC412oz_MJSIzFEuQED6w/edit">Meeting Minutes</a></p></td>
<td><p>Tom, Jim, Michael, Seba, Eoin, Dave</p></td>
<td></td>
<td><p>Pass</p></td>
<td><p>August 19, 2013</p></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>August 19, 2013</p></td>
<td><p>OWASP Board Meetings and Attendance Requirements: OWASP Board of Directors will hold quarterly board meetings lasting 4-6 hours each. The schedule of meetings will be set by the board in December before the year. It is likely the the board meetings will take place on Saturdays or on a dedicated day before a large OWASP conference. This change is a result of the success of the longer format board meeting and also a result of the Executive Director role that has enabled full time involvement and focus on OWASP operations. Board members must attend (in person or virtually) 3 of the 4 meetings to fulfill the attendance requirements. This will take effect in January, 2014.<a href="https://docs.google.com/a/owasp.org/document/d/1cYsp608TDiNfdLv60mePuCjC412oz_MJSIzFEuQED6w/edit">Meeting Minutes</a></p></td>
<td><p>Tom, Jim, Michael, Seba, Eoin, Dave</p></td>
<td></td>
<td><p>Pass</p></td>
<td><p>August 19, 2013</p></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>August 19, 2013</p></td>
<td><p>Vote for OWASP Board Onboarding Process: An official board orientation set of documents will be created that includes a stated conflict of interest policy (in addition to what we have in the bylaws), 2 required reading short books on non-profit foundations, requirement to read previous financial reports and 990, and links to our to-be created governance page. All board members will sign and acknowledge completion of the orientation by Jan 1, 2014. New board members to sign by January 1 (following their election), and subject to disciplinary action if not completed by February 1. Board members will not be allowed to participate in Board votes until acknowledgement is signed. <a href="https://docs.google.com/a/owasp.org/document/d/1cYsp608TDiNfdLv60mePuCjC412oz_MJSIzFEuQED6w/edit">Meeting Minutes</a></p></td>
<td><p>Tom, Jim, Michael, Seba, Eoin, Dave</p></td>
<td></td>
<td><p>Pass</p></td>
<td><p>August 19, 2013</p></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>May 13, 2013</p></td>
<td><p>Vote to make all board terms 1 year and all candidates and board members run for a specific position (President, VP, Secretary, Treasurer, (2) Member at large as outlined of the responsibilities of the bylaws. <a href="https://docs.google.com/a/owasp.org/document/d/1n9hAtbRyCgH5iMGyC-Uih6ZZoW2Kn0VYafEobVehJhk/edit">Motion</a> <a href="https://docs.google.com/a/owasp.org/document/d/1jCQYmc-NC5L_JVLsx3INrCrM_iacE9ujhH0Nf6iriXw/edit">June 10, 2013 Board Meeting Minutes</a>.</p></td>
<td><p>Tom</p></td>
<td><p>Jim, Michael, Seba, Eoin, Dave</p></td>
<td><p>Fail</p></td>
<td><p>June 10, 2013</p></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>May 23, 2013</p></td>
<td><p>Vote to modify SECTION 3.03 of OWASP Foundation Bylaws to allow for Board Members not able to attend in person Board Meeting: "and shall be highly encouraged to meet in person at least once annually at a date to be announced and agreed upon" <a href="https://docs.google.com/a/owasp.org/document/d/1jCQYmc-NC5L_JVLsx3INrCrM_iacE9ujhH0Nf6iriXw/edit">June 10, 2013 Board Meeting Minutes</a>.</p></td>
<td><p>Jim, Michael, Seba, Eoin, Dave</p></td>
<td><p>Tom</p></td>
<td><p>Pass</p></td>
<td><p>June 10, 2013</p></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>May 31, 2013</p></td>
<td><p>Vote to approve Foundation Signatory Policy outlined in <a href="https://docs.google.com/a/owasp.org/document/d/1wBmgSFkwS8d3r2xMjqlIMlu2Nf4lLdMeC5QLM6g42zw/edit">Executive Director Report</a>.</p></td>
<td><p>Tom, Jim, Michael, Seba</p></td>
<td></td>
<td><p>Pass</p></td>
<td><p>June 3 2013</p></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>May 31, 2013</p></td>
<td><p>Vote to approve budget modifications outlined in <a href="https://docs.google.com/a/owasp.org/document/d/1wBmgSFkwS8d3r2xMjqlIMlu2Nf4lLdMeC5QLM6g42zw/edit">Executive Director Report</a> primarily to fund increased staffing costs.</p></td>
<td><p>Tom, Jim, Michael, Seba</p></td>
<td></td>
<td><p>Pass</p></td>
<td><p>June 3 2013</p></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>May 13, 2013</p></td>
<td><p>Vote in support of EC Council Grant Proposal Submission <a href="https://docs.google.com/a/owasp.org/document/d/1WkOEYvvtj5Z3fJyKTipdnsjHIM7hr25oma3PCab5dGk/edit">Board Meeting Minutes</a></p></td>
<td><p>Tom, Jim, Michael, Seba, Dave, Eoin</p></td>
<td></td>
<td><p>Pass</p></td>
<td><p>May 13, 2013</p></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>May 13, 2013</p></td>
<td><p>Vote to confirm <a href="https://drive.google.com/a/owasp.org/folderview?id=0BxSfMVkfLvslVXdvUFV3NkxucWc&amp;usp=sharing">2013 OWASP Strategic Goals</a></p></td>
<td><p>Tom, Jim, Michael, Seba, Dave, Eoin</p></td>
<td></td>
<td><p>Pass</p></td>
<td><p>May 13, 2013</p></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>April 8, 2013</p></td>
<td><p>Vote to hire an executive director to the OWASP foundation.</p></td>
<td><p>Tom, Jim, Michael, Seba, Eoin, Dave</p></td>
<td></td>
<td><p>Pass Effective going forward (April 2013 -</p></td>
<td><p>8th April 2013</p></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>Feb 11, 2013</p></td>
<td><p>Vote to implement board member term limits to 4 consecutive 2 year terms.</p></td>
<td><p>Tom, Jim, Michael, Seba, Eoin</p></td>
<td><p>Dave</p></td>
<td><p>Pass Effective going forward (January 2014 - next election</p></td>
<td><p>Feb 11, 2013</p></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>Feb 12, 2013</p></td>
<td><p>Vote to officially dissolve global committees and proceed with Initiatives model <a href="https://www.owasp.org/index.php/OWASP_Initiatives_Global_Strategic_Focus">https://www.owasp.org/index.php/OWASP_Initiatives_Global_Strategic_Focus</a></p></td>
<td><p>Tom, Dave, Jim, Michael, Seba, Eoin</p></td>
<td></td>
<td><p>Pass</p></td>
<td><p>Feb 12, 2013</p></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Jan 14 2013</p></td>
<td><p>Move schedule of AppSecUSA to Q2 starting in 2014 (Q1 APAC, Q2 USA, Q3 EU, Q4 LATAM)</p></td>
<td><p>Michael, Tom, Jim, Eoin, Seba</p></td>
<td><p>Dave - not present to vote</p></td>
<td><p>Pass</p></td>
<td><p>Jan 14 2013</p></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>Jan 14 2013</p></td>
<td><p>60/40 membership split (Foundation/Chapters)</p></td>
<td><p>Michael (voted Jan 14), Eoin (voted Jan 14), Seba (email vote <a href="http://lists.owasp.org/pipermail/owasp-board/2013-February/011672.html">Feb 26</a>), Dave (email vote <a href="http://lists.owasp.org/pipermail/owasp-board/2013-February/011673.html">Feb 26</a>)</p></td>
<td><p>Abstain - Tom (conflict as a chapter leader), Jim</p></td>
<td><p>Pass</p></td>
<td><p>Feb 26, 2013</p></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Dec 10, 2012</p></td>
<td><p>Anti-Harassment Policy for Conferences <a href="https://docs.google.com/document/d/1clGSKA_W1J1-ODCP5pjAkOgD_BjjLf1TcQo54CG93oU/edit?pli=1">Link</a></p></td>
<td><p>Eoin, Tom, Seba, Matt, and Michael</p></td>
<td><p>Dave - not present to vote</p></td>
<td><p>Pass</p></td>
<td><p>Dec 10, 2012</p></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>November 29, 2012</p></td>
<td><p>Event Profit Split Proposal <a href="https://docs.google.com/a/owasp.org/document/d/159bD2oeAmM2yfPNeq5wHvIvHcl10Hl-c3Um2GXAW81Y/edit">Link</a></p></td>
<td><p>Eoin, Seba, Matt, Dave and Michael</p></td>
<td><p>Tom</p></td>
<td><p>Pass</p></td>
<td><p>Dec 5, 2012</p></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>May 14, 2012</p></td>
<td><p>Does the OWASP Board support the Projects Reboot Initiative with initial funding of $15,0000? Cut off date for initial round of funding end of June 2012.</p></td>
<td><p>Michael, Dave, Tom, Seba, Eoin</p></td>
<td></td>
<td><p>Pass</p></td>
<td><p>May 14, 2012</p></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>April 5, 2012</p></td>
<td><p>Vote to approve New Membership Wording on Landing page</p></td>
<td><p>Michael, Matt, Eoin, Dave, Seba</p></td>
<td></td>
<td><p>Pass</p></td>
<td><p>April 5, 2012</p></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>April 5, 2012</p></td>
<td><p>Sarah Baso has contract signing authority</p></td>
<td><p>Michael, Matt, Tom, Eoin, Seba, Dave</p></td>
<td></td>
<td><p>Pass</p></td>
<td><p>April 5, 2012</p></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>April 5, 2012</p></td>
<td><p>Move forward with Cruise Summit Panning</p></td>
<td></td>
<td><p>Seba, Eoin, Michael, Dave, Tom</p></td>
<td><p>Fail - defer summit to consider new proposals and board direction</p></td>
<td><p>April 5, 2012</p></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>March 12, 2012</p></td>
<td><p>Include in registration a mandatory field that makes the member (corporate or individual) to choose a local chapter/project or to choose “none”</p></td>
<td><p>Michael, Matt, Tom, Eoin</p></td>
<td></td>
<td><p>Pass</p></td>
<td><p>March 12, 2012</p></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>February, 2012</p></td>
<td><p>Is the Global Conference Committee Liason authorized to sign financial contracts below $15,000?</p></td>
<td></td>
<td><p>Tom, Eoin, Seba, Matt, Michael</p></td>
<td><p>Fail</p></td>
<td><p>February, 2012</p></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>10-Jan-2012</p></td>
<td><p>Vote to approve the 4 job descriptions as written (with minor edits noted in Board meeting minutes) <a href="January_9,_2012" title="wikilink">link to job descriptions and meeting minutes</a></p></td>
<td><p>Michael, Matt, Tom, Seba, Eoin</p></td>
<td></td>
<td><p>Pass</p></td>
<td><p>10-Jan-2012</p></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>10-Jan-2012</p></td>
<td><p>Vote to approve <a href="https://docs.google.com/a/owasp.org/spreadsheet/ccc?key=0AhI4iTO_QojvdFRTX1ZvUHU5U1N3WVRGNm56cDlOM1E&amp;hl=en_US#gid=0">2012 Budget</a> as written, with quarterly check in</p></td>
<td><p>Michael, Matt, Tom, Seba, Eoin</p></td>
<td></td>
<td><p>Pass</p></td>
<td><p>10-Jan-2012</p></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>10-Jan-2012</p></td>
<td><p>Proposal to remove OWASP member #72624861per Foundation Bylaws 4.03</p></td>
<td><p>Michael, Eoin, Matt, Tom, Seba</p></td>
<td><p>Dave</p></td>
<td><p>Pass</p></td>
<td><p>10-Jan-2011</p></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>14-Nov-2011</p></td>
<td><p>Letter of Intent from Security Innovations <a href="https://www.owasp.org/images/e/e9/OWASP_-_Letter_of_Intent_%28Security_Innovations%29.pdf">Letter of Intent Security Innovations</a></p></td>
<td><p>Dave, Matt, Tom, Seba</p></td>
<td></td>
<td><p>Pass</p></td>
<td><p>14-Nov-2011</p></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>10-Oct-2011</p></td>
<td><p>Do you support a modification to the election policy that during annual owasp elections for the OWASP International Board of Directors that the candidate must be in good standing and have served the community in the role of active global committee member for min 12 months?</p></td>
<td><p>Tom, Seba, Eoin</p></td>
<td><p>Michael, Matt, Dave</p></td>
<td><p>Fail</p></td>
<td><p>October 21, 2011</p></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>14-Nov-2011</p></td>
<td><p>Letter of Intent from Security Innovations <a href="https://www.owasp.org/images/e/e9/OWASP_-_Letter_of_Intent_%28Security_Innovations%29.pdf">Letter of Intent Security Innovations</a></p></td>
<td><p>Dave, Matt, Tom, Seba</p></td>
<td></td>
<td><p>Pass</p></td>
<td><p>14-Nov-2011</p></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>10-Oct-2011</p></td>
<td><p>Do you support a modification to the election policy that during annual owasp elections for the OWASP International Board of Directors that the candidate must be in good standing and have served the community in the role of active global committee member for min 12 months?</p></td>
<td><p>Dave, Tom, Seba, Eoin</p></td>
<td><p>Michael, Matt</p></td>
<td><p>Pass</p></td>
<td><p>20-Oct-2011</p></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>6-Sept-2011</p></td>
<td><p>Approve Exception to Board term for 2011 election. Newly elected board members will begin their term at the September 20 Meeting and will continue until December 31, 2013</p></td>
<td><p>Dave, Jeff, Seba, Eoin, Matt</p></td>
<td><p>Tom</p></td>
<td><p>Pass</p></td>
<td><p>6-Sept-2011</p></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>6-Sept-2011</p></td>
<td><p>Vote to approve the Rackspace agreement</p></td>
<td><p>Matt, Seba, Jeff, Dave, Eoin</p></td>
<td></td>
<td><p>Pass</p></td>
<td><p>6-Sept-2011</p></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>23-Aug-2011</p></td>
<td><p>Vote to Ammend the ByLaws to indicate a Board of Directors Term of 24 months commencing January 1 following the election</p></td>
<td><p>Matt, Tom, Seba, Eoin, Jeff</p></td>
<td><p>Dave Wichers</p></td>
<td><p>Pass</p></td>
<td><p>29-Aug-2011</p></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>23-Aug-2011</p></td>
<td><p>Vote to Approve <a href="https://www.owasp.org/images/2/24/OWASP_Hacking-Lab_Letter_of_intent_0.9.pdf">Hacking-Lab Letter of Intent</a></p></td>
<td><p>Eoin, Dave, Matt, Tom, Seba</p></td>
<td></td>
<td><p>Pass</p></td>
<td><p>24-Aug-2011</p></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>23-Aug-2011</p></td>
<td><p>Vote to Approve <a href="https://www.owasp.org/images/4/4d/2011_ISSA_International_Conference_OWASP_Co-Marketing_Agreement_FINAL.pdf">GCC Blanket Co Marketing Agreement</a></p></td>
<td><p>Eoin, Dave, Matt, Tom, Seba</p></td>
<td></td>
<td><p>Pass</p></td>
<td><p>24-Aug-2011</p></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>8-Aug-2011</p></td>
<td><p>Vote to approve allocation of additional $5,000 to Conference Committee Budget (from general OWASP fund) for schwag requests</p></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td><p>[deferred to after next committee chair meeting - Sept. meeting]</p></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>8-Aug-2011</p></td>
<td><p>Yes/No Will LACSON be grated exception from Conference Committee Oversight?</p></td>
<td><p>Jeff, Seba, Eoin</p></td>
<td><p>Tom, (Matt - Abstain)</p></td>
<td><p>Pass (3 of 5 present at meeting)</p></td>
<td><p>8-Aug-2011</p></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>8-Aug-2011</p></td>
<td><p>Yes/No Will the Foundation allocate $5K - $10K for OWASP Brochure Website - Design Funding</p></td>
<td><p>Jeff, Seba, Eoin, Tom, Matt</p></td>
<td></td>
<td><p>Pass (5 of 5 present)</p></td>
<td><p>8-Aug-2011</p></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>--|-</p></td>
<td><p>11-July-2011</p></td>
<td><p>1. Yes or No to Project and Chapter leaders current as of June 30, 2011 receiving an automatic vote in the 2011 election. (That is they do not need to fill out a form or do anything to receive this privilege).</p></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>11-July-2011</p></td>
<td><p>1a. Yes or No to #1 continuing in future elections.</p></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>11-July-2011</p></td>
<td><p>2. Yes or No to Project and Chapter leaders current as of June 30, 2011 receiving a one year honorary Membership, which includes a vote in the 2011 election. (That is they do not need to fill out a form or do anything to receive this privilege).</p></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>11-July-2011</p></td>
<td><p>2a. Yes or No to #2 continuing in future elections.</p></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>11-July-2011</p></td>
<td><p>If point #2 does not pass, then: 3.Yes or no to OWASP membership for the 2011 election will require either - registering for membership (paid) or requesting honorary membership via the form established by the membership committee</p></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>11-July-2011</p></td>
<td><p>If point #2a does not pass, then: 3a. Yes or no to OWASP membership for the future (subsequent to 2011 election) will require either - registering for membership (paid) or requesting honorary membership via the form established by the membership committee.</p></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

  - Date of final vote received needed for pass/fail quorum