![AppSecEurope2006.jpg](AppSecEurope2006.jpg "AppSecEurope2006.jpg")

## Conference Location

This year, the OWASP Europe Conference was held in Belgium at the
Catholic University of Leuven (aka Katholieke Universiteit Leuven, or
K.U. Leuven) in Leuven, which is 25 km from Brussels. More information
about the location is presented below.

## Agenda and Presentations

See the [agenda page](AppSec_Europe_2006/Agenda "wikilink") for the
conference agenda and copies of all the presentations.

## Training Day

OWASP arranged a one-day training course on Web Application Security
which was offered on May 29th, the day prior to the conference. More
information about this one day tutorial is available here: [The
Foundations of Web Application
Security](AppSec_Europe_2006/Training "wikilink"). This course provides
a great introduction for conference attendees into the fundamental
security issues that are highly prevalent in today's Web Applications.
The prevalence of such vulnerabilities is why OWASP was formed to raise
awareness of and help organizations and individuals eliminate such
vulnerabilities from their application code.

OWASP also provided a second one-day training course on Web Services
Security. Information on this course is available here: [Web Services
Security](AppSec_Europe_2006/Training "wikilink").

## Evening Social Event - May 30th

At every conference we have an evening social event the first night.
This allows participants to have some unstructured time to mingle with
the other attendees. They are always fun and typically attract about
half the conference attendees. This year's event was more upscale than
in the past, with a three course dinner at the nearby Faculty Club. The
Faculty club is a restaurant annex conference centre located in a
medieval part of Leuven. You can find pictures and more details here:
[Faculty Club
Info](http://www.facultyclub.be/E/030_infrastructuur_D.lasso).

This event started with a short tour of Leuven as we walk to the club,
followed by a short reception and then dinner. Historically, after the
dinner is over, a local club is identified and the die hards move to
that location. We hope to see you there.

Dinner Agenda: 18h00-19h00: a guided city tour in the historical center
of Leuven that starts at the auditorium and ends at the Faculty Club
19h00-19h30: small reception at the Faculty Club 19h30-….: 3-course
dinner with wines

## Accommodations

Current information on available accomodations is available
[here](AppSec_Europe_2006/Accommodations "wikilink").

## Directions

[Leuven](http://www.leuven.be/) is about 25 km east of
[Brussels](http://www.brussels.be/), capital of Belgium. Do not confuse
Leuven with Louvain La Neuve, where the francophone sister university of
the K.U.Leuven is located\! Louvain La Neuve is near Wavre and
Ottignies, about 30km south-west of Leuven.

## By Plane

Take the plane to [Brussels Airport](http://www.brusselsairport.be/)
(Zaventem). It is about 25 km from Leuven.

The are different options to get from the airport to Leuven: There are
frequent [trains](http://www.b-rail.be/) to Leuven. The trip takes less
than 20 minutes and will cost 4.80 euro. You can use the following
[website](http://www.b-rail.be/) to find a train from Brussels Airport
("Brussel Nationale Luchthaven") to Leuven on the desired date and time.

A taxi from Brussels Airport will cost about 50 euro.

[Car rental](http://www.brusselsairport.be/rental/) desks are located in
the arrival halls of the airport. However, keep in mind that parking
space in Leuven is limited and expensive.

## By Train

Consult the [Belgian Railways](http://www.b-rail.be/) site. Leuven is on
the line from Brussels to Liege (Luik), Aachen and Koeln. There are
[trains](http://www.b-rail.be/) every 15 minutes from any of the three
major train stations in the city of Brussels (Brussel Zuid, Brussel
Centraal, and Brussel Noord) to Leuven. The total trip will take about
30 minutes and will cost you about 4 euro.

There are also fast international train connections to Brussels South
(Brussel Zuid/Bruxelles Midi) available from major European cities:
[Thalys](http://www.thalys.com/): Paris Nord (1h25'), Airport Charles De
Gaulle (1h15'), Koeln HBF (2h30'), Amsterdam (2h40'), Rotterdam (1h40')

[Eurostar](http://www.eurostar.com/): London Waterloo (2h20'), Lille
Europe (40')

## By Car

Take the highway E40 (Brussel-Luik). From E40 take the exit E314/A2
Leuven-Hasselt-Genk between exit 22 (Bertem)and exit 23 (Haasrode). From
E314 take the exit 15 and follow directions to Leuven.

## Conference Location in Leuven

[<https://www.owasp.org/images/9/97/Kuleuven.jpg>](http://www.kuleuven.be/english)

The conference will be held in:

`College De Valk`
`Auditorium Zeger Van Hee `
`Tiensestraat 41`
`3000 Leuven `

The location is indicated with a cross on the following
[map](http://cwisdb.cc.kuleuven.be/kaarten-bin/basiskaart.pl?gebouwnm=&straatnm=Tiensestraat41&deelgem=Leuven&kaartnr=1&xlambert=173640&ylambert=174220&xlambin=173640&ylambin=174220).
(Click on the map to zoom in)

Conference Committee (conferences 'at' owasp.org)

  - Dave Wichers, Aspect Security, (OWASP Conferences Chair)
  - Frank Piessens, University of Leuven, (Local Conference Chair)
  - Sebastien Deleersnyder, Ascure, (OWASP Belgium Chapter Lead)

If you have any questions about the conference please contact Dave
Wichers, the OWASP Conferences Chair, at conferences at' owasp.org

## [Conference Sponsors](OWASP_AppSec_Conference_Sponsors "wikilink")

OWASP would like to thank the following organizations for sponsoring
this conference:

[<https://www.owasp.org/images/d/d1/Aspect_logo.gif>](http://www.aspectsecurity.com)
[<https://www.owasp.org/images/7/7e/50px-F5_50px.jpg>](http://www.f5.com)[<https://www.owasp.org/images/4/49/Ascure_logo.jpg>](http://www.ascure.com)
[<https://www.owasp.org/images/3/36/100px-Zion_150_37.jpg>](http://www.zionsecurity.com/index.php)
[<https://www.owasp.org/images/d/d1/Fortify.JPG>](http://www.fortifysoftware.com)
[<https://www.owasp.org/images/4/43/Bee_ware_logo.gif>](http://www.bee-ware.net)

## Facility Sponsor

  - Katholieke Universiteit Leuven

__NOTOC__

[Category:OWASP AppSec
Conference](Category:OWASP_AppSec_Conference "wikilink")