__NOTOC__

<center>

[<https://www.owasp.org/images/5/53/NZ_day_2018_web.jpg>](https://www.owasp.org/index.php/OWASP_New_Zealand_Day_2018)

**4th and 5th February 2018 - Auckland**

</center>

-----

# Introduction

## Introduction

We are proud to announce the ninth OWASP New Zealand Day conference, to
be held at the University of Auckland on Monday February 5th, 2018.
OWASP New Zealand Day is a one-day conference dedicated to information
security, with an emphasis on secure architecture and development
techniques to help Kiwi developers build more secure applications.

Who is it for?

  - Web Developers: There will be a choice of two streams in the
    morning. First stream covering introductory talks to information
    security, second stream covering deeper technical topics. Afternoon
    sessions will cover offensive security in stream one, and continue
    with deeper technical topics in stream two
  - Security Professionals and Enthusiasts: Technical sessions later in
    the day will showcase new and interesting attack and defence topics

## Conference structure

Date: Monday 5 February 2018
Time: 9:30am - 6:00pm
Cost: Free
The main conference is on Monday 5th of February, and will have two
streams in both the morning and the afternoon:

\--

<table style="border:1px solid black;">

<tr>

<td width="10%" style="text-align:center; border:1px solid black">

Morning

</td>

<td width="45%" style="border:1px solid black; padding: 0px 0px 0px 12px;">

Introductory information security topics

</td>

<td width="45%" style="border:1px solid black; padding: 0px 0px 0px 12px;">

Informational / Defensive

</td>

</tr>

<tr>

<td width="10%" style="text-align:center; border:1px solid black;">

Afternoon

</td>

<td width="45%" style="border:1px solid black; padding: 0px 0px 0px 12px;">

Offensive Security

</td>

<td width="45%" style="border:1px solid black; padding: 0px 0px 0px 12px;">

Informational / Defensive

</td>

</tr>

</table>

\--\>

## Training

As well as the main conference on Monday, we are pleased to be able to
provide training on Sunday at the same venue. All details including
registration are as follows:

[**Building Security Into Your Development
Teams**](https://binarymist.io/talk/owaspnzday-2018-workshop-building-security-into-your-development-team/)
Date: Sun 04 February 2018
Time: 9:00am - 5:30pm or part thereof
[Training Registration
Page](https://www.eventbrite.com/e/owasp-nz-day-interactive-workshop-building-security-into-your-development-teams-tickets-41266447054)

Spaces going fast, so get in quick

## General

The ninth OWASP New Zealand Day will be happening thanks to the support
provided by the University of Auckland, which will kindly offer the same
location as last year for stream one, with the addition of another room
near by for the stream two room. Entry to the event will, as in the
past, be free.

For any comments, feedback or observations, please don't hesitate to
contact
[us](mailto:kim.carter@owasp.org?cc=kirk.jackson@owasp.org&cc=denis.andzakovic@owasp.org).

## Registration

\-- Registration is not yet open. Please join our low volume [mailing
list](https://lists.owasp.org/mailman/listinfo/owasp-newzealand) to be
notified when registration opens and/or follow us on twitter
[@owaspnz](https://twitter.com/owaspnz) --\>

Registration for the main conference day is now open: [Conference
Registration Here](https://owaspnz2018.eventbrite.com/), Follow us on
twitter [@owaspnz](https://twitter.com/owaspnz)

There is no cost for the main conference day. Unfortunately due to
increased conference running costs, lunch, morning and afternoon tea's
will not be provided as it has been for the past OWASP NZ Days. We do
ask that if at any point you realise you cannot make it please cancel
your registration to make room for others as spaces are limited.

\-- Training Registration is now open: [Training
Registration](http://www.regonline.com/owaspnzday2017trainingandsponsorship)
--\>

\-- Registration is now closed. --\>

## Important dates

  - CFP submission deadline: 8th December 2017
  - CFT submission deadline: 8th December 2017
  - Conference Registration deadline: 29th January 2018
  - Training Registration deadline: 29th January 2018
  - Training Day date: 4th February 2018
  - Conference Day date: 5th February 2018

For those of you booking flights, ensure you can be at the venue at
9:00am, the conference will end by 6:00pm however we will have post
conference drinks at a local drinking establishment for those
interested.

## Places to eat & drink on the day

  - Coffee cart and selection of snacks next to the reception on the
    ground floor, this is the closest but will probably have long lines
  - Mojo Symonds - also on campus
  - Shakey Isles - coffee and food across the road on the corner of
    Symonds & Alfred St
  - The CBD - walk up and over Albert Park to get to the CBD with many
    great food options

<!-- end list -->

  - Fort Street has burgers, kebabs, and KFC
  - High Street & Lorne Street have lots of little cafes and restaurants

<li>

Subway, Starbucks, & Pita Pit - walk up Symonds Street

</li>

<li>

Vulture’s Lane is a popular pub with the infosec crowd, there are more
seats downstairs

</li>

<li>

The Bluestone Room - also a popular pub just across Queen St

</li>

</ul>

## Conference Venue

<table width="100%">

<tr>

<td>

The University of Auckland School of Business
Owen Glen Building
Address: 12 Grafton Road

Stream one room: Level 1
Room: 115 (Fisher & Paykel Auditorium)

Stream two room: Level 0
Room: 098

Auckland
New Zealand
[Map](https://www.google.com/maps/place/Owen+G+Glenn+Building+12+Grafton+Road/@-36.8528203,174.770224,17z/data=!4m6!1m3!3m2!1s0x0000000000000000:0x0205ad91287ba364!2sUniversity+of+Auckland+Graduate+School+of+Enterprise!3m1!1s0x0000000000000000:0xc9d224e5921a6690)

</td>

<td>

![Image:073_AUBiz_10Apr08small.jpg](073_AUBiz_10Apr08small.jpg
"Image:073_AUBiz_10Apr08small.jpg")
![Image:OWASPNZDayLectureTheatre.jpg](OWASPNZDayLectureTheatre.jpg
"Image:OWASPNZDayLectureTheatre.jpg")

</td>

</tr>

</table>

## Conference Sponsors

<table width="100%" border="0" cellspacing="1" cellpadding="1">

<tr>

<td valign="bottom" width="100%">

<center>

[<https://www.owasp.org/images/f/f8/AuckUni.png>](http://www.auckland.ac.nz/)

</center>

</td>

</tr>

</table>

-----

**Gold Sponsors:**

<table width="100%" border="0" cellspacing="7" cellpadding="0">

<tr>

<td>

<center>

![Zx.png](Zx.png "Zx.png")

</center>

</td>

<td>

 

</td>

<td>

 

</td>

<td>

<center>

![INSOMNIA.PNG](INSOMNIA.PNG "INSOMNIA.PNG")

</center>

</td>

<td>

 

</td>

<td>

 

</td>

<td>

<center>

![Aura_PBK_Colour.jpg](Aura_PBK_Colour.jpg "Aura_PBK_Colour.jpg")

</center>

</td>

</tr>

</table>

-----

**Silver Sponsors:**

<table width="100%" border="0" cellspacing="7" cellpadding="0">

<tr>

<td>

<center>

![Quantum_Security_%28strip%29-02.png](Quantum_Security_%28strip%29-02.png
"Quantum_Security_%28strip%29-02.png")

</center>

</td>

</tr>

</table>

-----

**Support Sponsors:**

<table width="100%" border="0" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0">

<tr>

<td>

<center>

![BinaryMistLimited.png](BinaryMistLimited.png "BinaryMistLimited.png")

</center>

</td>

<td>

 

</td>

<td>

 

</td>

<td>

<center>

![Atlassian.png](Atlassian.png "Atlassian.png")

</center>

</td>

</tr>

</table>

## Conference Committee

  - Kirk Jackson - OWASP New Zealand Leader (Wellington)
  - Kim Carter - OWASP New Zealand Leader (Christchurch)
  - Nick Malcolm - OWASP New Zealand Leader (Auckland)
  - Lech Janczewski - Associate Professor - University of Auckland
    School of Business

Please direct all enquiries to nick.malcolm@owasp.org |
kirk.jackson@owasp.org | kim.carter@owasp.org

OWASP NZ on Twitter (https://twitter.com/owaspnz)

# Training

## Training

As well as the main conference on Monday, we are pleased to be able to
provide training on Sunday at the same venue. All details including
registration are as follows:

[**Building Security Into Your Development
Teams**](https://binarymist.io/talk/owaspnzday-2018-workshop-building-security-into-your-development-team/)
Date: Sun 04 February 2018
Time: 9:00am - 5:30pm or part thereof
[Training Registration
Page](https://www.eventbrite.com/e/owasp-nz-day-interactive-workshop-building-security-into-your-development-teams-tickets-41266447054)

Spaces going fast, so get in quick

# Call For Presentations

## Call For Presentations

**Thank you to all those who have submitted talks. The call for
presentations has now closed.**

OWASP New Zealand Day conferences attract a high quality of speakers
from a variety of security disciplines including architects, web
developers and engineers, system administrators, penetration testers,
policy specialists and more.

We would like a variety of technical levels in the presentations
submitted, corresponding to the three sections of the conference:

  - Introductions to various Information Security topics, and the OWASP
    projects
  - Technical topics
  - Policy, Compliance and Risk Management

The introductory talks should appeal to an intermediate to experienced
software developer, without a solid grounding in application security or
knowledge of the OWASP projects. These talks should be engaging,
encourage developers to learn more about information security, and give
them techniques that they can immediately return to work and apply to
their jobs.

Technical topics are running all day and should appeal to two audiences
- experienced software security testers or researchers, and software
developers who have a “OWASP Top Ten” level of understanding of web
attacks and defences. You could present a lightning, short or long talk
on something you have researched, developed yourself, or learnt in your
travels. Ideally the topics will have technical depth or novelty so that
the majority of attendees learn something new.

We would also like to invite talks that will appeal to those interested
in the various non-technical topics that are important in our industry.
These talks could focus on the development of policies, dealing with
compliance obligations, managing risks within an enterprise, or other
issues that could appeal to those in management roles.

We encourage presentations to have a strong component on fixing and
prevention of security issues. We are looking for presentations on a
wide variety of security topics, including but not limited to:

  - Web application security
  - Mobile security
  - Cloud security
  - Secure development
  - Vulnerability analysis
  - Threat modelling
  - Application exploitation
  - Exploitation techniques
  - Threat and vulnerability countermeasures
  - Platform or language security (JavaScript, NodeJS, .NET, Java, RoR,
    Python, etc)
  - Penetration Testing
  - Browser and client security
  - Application and solution architecture security
  - PCI DSS
  - Risk management
  - Security concepts for C\*Os, project managers and other
    non-technical attendees
  - Privacy controls

\-- The email subject must be "OWASP New Zealand 2017: CFP" and the
email body must contain the following information/sections:

  - Name and Surname
  - Affiliation
  - Telephone number
  - Email address
  - Short presenter bio
  - Title of the contribution
  - Type of contribution: Technical, Informative, Management
  - Suggested length for the talk
  - Short abstract (up to 500 words)
  - List of the author's previous papers/articles/speeches on the
    same/similar topic (if any)
  - If you are not from New Zealand, will your company support your
    travel/accommodation costs? - Yes/No

\--\>

The submission will be reviewed by the OWASP New Zealand Day conference
committee and the highest voted talks will be selected and invited for
presentation.

PLEASE NOTE:

  - Due to limited budget available, expenses for international speakers
    cannot be covered.
  - If your company is willing to cover travel and accommodation costs,
    the company will become "Support Sponsor" of the event.

**Thank you to all those who have submitted talks. The call for
presentations has now closed.**

Please submit your presentation
[here](https://www.papercall.io/owaspnz2018).

\-- Please submit the above information to all of the following: Denis
Andzakovic (denis.andzakovic@owasp.org), Kirk Jackson
(kirk.jackson@owasp.org) and Kim Carter (kim.carter@owasp.org). --\>

<b>Submissions deadline: 8th December 2017</b>

Applicants will be notified in the following week after the deadline,
whether they were successful or not. --

# Call For Trainers

## Call For Trainers

We are happy to announce that training will run on Sunday February 4
2018, the day before the OWASP NZ Day conference. The training venue
will be Level 0, Rooms: case rooms 1(005), 2(057), 3(055), and 4(009)
kindly provided by the University of Auckland School of Business, in the
same building as the OWASP NZ Day conference itself. Classes can contain
up to 69 students, with power for laptop usage and Wi-Fi. A wide range
of half-day or full-day training proposals will be considered, see the
Call for Papers for a list of example topics.

If you are interested in running one of the training sessions, please
contact Denis Andzakovic, Kirk Jackson and Kim Carter with the following
information:

  - Trainer name
  - Trainer organisation
  - Telephone + email contact
  - Short Trainer bio
  - Training title
  - Trainer requirements (e.g. a projector, whiteboard, etc)
  - Trainee requirements (e.g. laptop, VMware/VirtualBox, etc)
  - Training summary (less than 500 words)
  - Target audience (e.g. testers, project managers, security managers,
    web developers, architects)
  - Skill level required (Basic / Intermediate / Advanced)
  - What attendees can expect to learn (key objectives)
  - Short course outline

The fixed price per head for training will be $250 for a half-day
session and $500 for a whole-day session. As this training is part of an
OWASP event, part of the proceeds go back to OWASP. The split is as
follows:

  - 25% to OWASP Global - used for OWASP projects around the world
  - 25% to OWASP NZ Day - used for NZ Day expenses
  - 50% to the training provider.

Please submit the above information to all of the following:

  - Denis Andzakovic (denis.andzakovic@owasp.org)
  - Kirk Jackson (kirk.jackson@owasp.org)
  - Kim Carter (kim.carter@owasp.org).

<b>Submissions deadline: 8th December 2017</b>

Applicants will be notified in the following week after the deadline,
whether they were successful or not. --\>

# Call For Sponsorships

## Call For Sponsorships

OWASP New Zealand Day 2018 will be held in Auckland on the 5th of
February, 2018 and is a security conference entirely dedicated to
application security. The conference is once again being hosted by the
University of Auckland with their support and assistance. OWASP New
Zealand Day 2018 is a free event, but requires sponsor support to help
be an instructive and quality event for the New Zealand community. OWASP
is strictly not for profit. The sponsorship money will be used to help
make OWASP New Zealand Day 2018 a free, compelling, and valuable
experience for all attendees.

The sponsorship funds collected are to be used for things such as:

  - Name tags - we feel that getting to know people within the New
    Zealand community is important, and name tags make that possible.
  - Promotion - up to now our events are propagating by word of mouth.
    We would like to get to a wider audience by advertising our events.
  - Printed Materials - printed materials will include brochures, tags
    and lanyards.

## Facts

Last year, the event was supported by nine sponsors and attracted more
than 900 registrations. Plenty of constructive (and positive\!) feedback
from the audience was received and we are using this to make the
conference more appealing to more people. For more information on the
last New Zealand Day event, please visit:
<https://www.owasp.org/index.php/OWASP_New_Zealand_Day_2017>

The OWASP New Zealand community is strong, there are more than 500
people currently subscribed to the mailing-list. OWASP New Zealand Day
is expected to attract between 800 and 1000 attendees this year.

OWASP regular attendees are IT project managers, IT security managers,
IT security consultants, web application architects and developers, QA
managers, QA testers and system administrators.

## Sponsorships

There are three different levels of sponsorships for the OWASP New
Zealand Day event:

<b>Support Sponsorship</b>: (Covering international speaker travel
expenses, media coverage/article/promotion of the event)

Includes:

  - Publication of the sponsor logo on the event web site -
    <https://www.owasp.org/index.php/OWASP_New_Zealand_Day_2018>

<b>Silver Sponsorship</b>: 1500 NZD

Includes:

  - Publication of the sponsor logo on the event web site -
    <https://www.owasp.org/index.php/OWASP_New_Zealand_Day_2018>
  - The publication of the sponsor logo in the event site, in the
    agenda, on the handouts and in all the official communications with
    the attendees at the conference.
  - The possibility to distribute the company brochures, CDs or other
    materials to the participants during the event.

<b>Gold Sponsorship</b>: 2750 NZD

Includes:

  - The possibility to have a promotional banner or sign side stage in
    the main auditorium (to be provided by the sponsor, size subject to
    approval by the OWASP NZ Day Committee).
  - The publication of the sponsor logo in the event site, in the
    agenda, on the handouts and in all the official communications with
    the attendees at the conference.
  - The possibility to distribute the company brochures, CDs or other
    materials to the participants during the event.
  - Publication of the sponsor logo on the OWASP New Zealand Chapter
    page - Sponsor logo on the OWASP NZ site prior and during the OWASP
    Day event - <https://www.owasp.org/index.php/New_Zealand>
  - Publication of the sponsor logo on the event web site -
    <https://www.owasp.org/index.php/OWASP_New_Zealand_Day_2018>

Those who are interested in sponsoring OWASP New Zealand 2018 Conference
can contact the [OWASP New Zealand
Board](mailto:kim.carter@owasp.org,kirk.jackson@owasp.org,denis.andzakovic@owasp.org).

# Presentation Schedule

## Presentations

<center>

5th February 2018

<table width="100%">

<tr>

<td width="5%" valign="top" align="right">

08:30

</td>

<td colspan="3" style="background-color: #8595C2; text-align: center">

Registration Opens

</td>

</tr>

<tr>

<td width="7%" valign="top" align="right">

09:30

</td>

<td colspan="3" style="background-color: #B9C2DC; text-align: center">

`           `<b>`Welcome to OWASP New Zealand Day 2018`</b>
`            `<i>`Kirk Jackson, `[`Kim``
 ``Carter`](https://binarymist.io)`, Nick Malcolm (OWASP Leaders), and Lech Janczewski (Associate Professor)`</i>

</tr>

<tr>

<td width="7%" valign="top" align="right">

</td>

<td style="background-color: #EEE; text-align: center">

<b>Upstairs room</b>

</td>

<td width="7%" valign="top" align="right">

09:45

</td>

<td style="background-color: #EEE; text-align: center">

`           `**`Downstairs``   ``room`**
`       `

</td>

</tr>

<tr>

<td width="7%" valign="top" align="right">

</td>

<td style="background-color: #EEE; text-align: center">

`           `<b>`Fear Itself`</b>
`            `<i>`Laura Bell - SafeStack`</i>
`       `

</td>

<td width="7%" valign="top" align="right">

09:45

</td>

<td style="background-color: #EEE; text-align: center">

`           `<b>`Offensive Defence`</b>
`            `<i>`Chris Berry - Aura Information Security`</i>
[`Slides:``   ``(PDF,``
 ``3.4mb)`](Media:2018-02-05-ChrisBerry.pdf "wikilink")

[Video](https://www.youtube.com/edit?o=U&video_id=-z4ID7Rh84E)

</td>

</tr>

<tr>

<td width="7%" valign="top" align="right">

10:20

</td>

<td style="background-color: #B9C2DC; text-align: center">

`           `<b>`Pizza Roulette`</b>
`            `<i>`Catherine McIlvride and Fiona Sasse`</i>
[`Slides:``   ``(PDF,``
 ``3.4mb)`](Media:2018-02-05-CatherineMcIlvrideFionaSasse.pdf "wikilink")

[Video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=FUY-PgZqI3A)

</td>

<td width="7%" valign="top" align="right">

10:20

</td>

<td style="background-color: #B9C2DC; text-align: center">

`           `<b>`Auth* Infrastructure for Everyone`</b>
`            `<i>`Ryan Kurte and Kirk Holloway`</i>
[`Slides`](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/11tFlGmRQUBJ5ns-8gxRDxL3J0rAkCgOVqAEGqwqxDLM/edit?usp=sharing)
`       `

</td>

</tr>

<tr>

<td width="7%" valign="top" align="right">

10:55

</td>

<td style="background-color: #EEE; text-align: center">

`           `<b>`Guarding the Pot of Gold while the Rainbow gets bigger`</b>
`            `<i>`Sarah Bennett and Patricia Ramsden - Xero`</i>
[`Video`](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=kh5q-79Boe8)
`       `

</td>

<td width="7%" valign="top" align="right">

10:55

</td>

<td style="background-color: #EEE; text-align: center">

`           `<b>`Bermudez - a honeypit designed to waste hacker's time`</b>
`            `<i>`Ian Welch and Kaishuo Yang`</i>
[`Video`](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=t5XBf4LApoo)
`       `

</td>

</tr>

<tr>

<td width="7%" valign="top" align="right">

11:30

</td>

<td style="background-color: #B9C2DC; text-align: center">

`           `<b>`Enough theory, how are websites getting hacked in real life?`</b>
`            `<i>`Declan Ingram - CERT`</i>
[`Video`](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=WhYh-eUqxIA&t=137s)
`       `

</td>

<td width="7%" valign="top" align="right">

11:30

</td>

<td style="background-color: #B9C2DC; text-align: center">

`           `<b>`Rails Derailed`</b>
`            `<i>`Tim Goddard`</i>
[`Slides`](https://insomniasec.com/releases)

[Video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=fGlS6w2naN0)

</td>

</tr>

<tr>

<td width="7%" valign="top" align="right">

12:05

</td>

<td style="background-color: #EEE; text-align: center">

`           `<b>`Secure APIs: Road to Business Growth`</b>
`            `<i>`Anupama Natarajan - Unisys New Zealand`</i>
[`Slides:``   ``(PDF,``
 ``719kb)`](Media:2018-02-05-AnupamaNatarajan.pdf "wikilink")

[Video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=WIz6pS9L5l0)

</td>

<td width="7%" valign="top" align="right">

12:05

</td>

<td style="background-color: #EEE; text-align: center">

`           `<b>`Timing-Based Attacks in Web Applications`</b>
`            `<i>`Yappare`</i>
[`Slides:``   ``(PDF,``
 ``7.7mb)`](Media:2018-02-05-AhmadAshraff.pdf "wikilink")
`       `

</td>

</tr>

<tr>

<td width="7%" valign="top" align="right">

12:35

</td>

<td colspan="3" style="background-color: #D98B66; text-align: center">

`           `<b>`Break for Lunch`</b>
`        `

</td>

</tr>

<tr>

<td width="7%" valign="top" align="right">

14:00

</td>

<td style="background-color: #EEE; text-align: center">

`           `<b>`Developer's guide to Deserialization Attacks`</b>
`            `<i>`Felix Shi`</i>
`       `

</td>

<td width="7%" valign="top" align="right">

14:00

</td>

<td style="background-color: #EEE; text-align: center">

`           `<b>`IoT - How to fight the tyre fire`</b>
`            `<i>`Tom Isaacson`</i>
[`Slides``
 ``(speakerdeck)`](https://speakerdeck.com/parsley72/iot-how-to-fight-the-tyre-fire-1)
`       `

</td>

</tr>

<tr>

<td width="7%" valign="top" align="right">

14:45

</td>

<td style="background-color: #B9C2DC; text-align: center">

`           `<b>`Finding the path to #DevSecOps nirvana`</b>
`            `<i>`Olly - Xero`</i>
`       `

</td>

<td width="7%" valign="top" align="right">

14:45

</td>

<td style="background-color: #B9C2DC; text-align: center">

`           `<b>`Thinking like an Attacker (Hacking your own organisation)`</b>
`            `<i>`Nick Le Mouton - drugs.com`</i>
[`Slides``
 ``(speakerdeck)`](https://speakerdeck.com/noodlesnz/thinking-like-an-attacker)

[Video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=fGlS6w2naN0)

</td>

</tr>

<tr>

<td width="7%" valign="top" align="right">

15:00

</td>

<td style="background-color: #EEE; text-align: center">

`           `<b>`When Shoestrings Snap`</b>
`            `<i>`Rory Shillington - VoltsAndBits`</i>
[`Slides:``   ``(PDF,``
 ``7.3mb)`](Media:2018-02-05-RoryShillington.pdf "wikilink")

[Video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ElbY05nfZ2M)

</td>

<td width="7%" valign="top" align="right">

15:00

</td>

<td style="background-color: #EEE; text-align: center">

`           `<b>`Evil Pickles: DoS Attacks Based on Object-Graph Engineering`</b>
`            `<i>`Jens Dietrich - Massey University`</i>
[`Slides``
 ``(google)`](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1WSDq_k6z4rZeuZlvdYfNyS1IwJhVLH-gxUROi98qkL8/edit#slide=id.p)

[Video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1q2rZyR17jU)

</td>

</tr>

<tr>

<td width="7%" valign="top" align="right">

15:30

</td>

<td colspan="3" style="background-color: #D98B66; text-align: center">

`           `<b>`Break for Afternoon Tea`</b>
`        `

</td>

</tr>

<tr>

<td width="7%" valign="top" align="right">

16:00

</td>

<td style="background-color: #EEE; text-align: center">

`           `<b>`Enough with XSS, let's talk about something else?`</b>
`            `<i>`Karan Sharma`</i>
[`Slides:``   ``(PPTX,``
 ``4mb)`](Media:2018-02-05-KaranSharma.pptx "wikilink")

[Video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=KbVWJcf2CRQ)

</td>

<td width="7%" valign="top" align="right">

16:00

</td>

<td style="background-color: #EEE; text-align: center">

`           `<b>`Secure development in Go`</b>
`            `<i>`Dion Bramley`</i>
[`Slides``   ``(github)`](https://github.com/dionb/GoSecureDev)

[Video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4O2OShd-Su8)

</td>

</tr>

<tr>

<td width="7%" valign="top" align="right">

16:35

</td>

<td style="background-color: #B9C2DC; text-align: center">

`           `<b>`Riding someone else’s wave with CSRF`</b>
`            `<i>`Sam Shute - Quantum Security`</i>
[`Slides:``   ``(PPTX,``
 ``234kb)`](Media:2018-02-05-SamShute.pptx "wikilink")
`       `

</td>

<td width="7%" valign="top" align="right">

16:35

</td>

<td style="background-color: #B9C2DC; text-align: center">

`           `<b>`Secure Your Programming Future!`</b>
`            `<i>`David Pearce`</i>
[`Slides:``   ``(PDF,``
 ``1.8mb)`](Media:2018-02-05-DavidPearce.pdf "wikilink")
`       `

</td>

</tr>

<tr>

<td width="7%" valign="top" align="right">

17:10

</td>

<td style="background-color: #EEE; text-align: center">

`           `<b>`Operation Luigi: How I hacked my friend without her noticing`</b>
`            `<i>`Alex Hogue - Atlassian`</i>
`       `

</td>

<td width="7%" valign="top" align="right">

17:10

</td>

<td style="background-color: #EEE; text-align: center">

`           `<b>`Handling Of A PCI Incident - PANs In The Database`</b>
`            `<i>`David Waters - Pushpay`</i>
`       `

</td>

</tr>

<tr>

<td width="7%" valign="top" align="right">

17:50

</td>

<td colspan="3" style="background-color: #B9C2DC; text-align: center">

`           `<b>`Wrap Up`</b>
`            `<i>`Time to go out and socialise, for those interested`</i>
`       `

</td>

</tr>

</table>

</center>

# Speakers List

## Speakers List

### Laura Bell - SafeStack - Fear Itself

-----

<b>Abstract</b>

Abstract: The world is a scary place right now. While the risk posed by
security threats is high, there are many organisations and people for
whom this is the least of their concerns.

In a time of unsettled economies & governments, where there are more
breaches each week than we would have once seen in a year... how can we
change the way we enable and inspire security change to stop trying to
scare the terrified and start trying to help.

<b>Speaker Bio</b>

With almost a decade of experience in software development and
information security, Laura Bell specializes in bringing security
survival skills, practices, and culture into fast paced organisations of
every shape and size.

An experienced conference speaker, trainer, and regular panel member,
Laura has spoken at a range of events such as BlackHat USA, Velocity,
OSCON, Kiwicon, Linux Conf AU, and Microsoft TechEd on the subjects of
privacy, covert communications, agile security, and security mindset.

As the co-author of "Agile Application Security" published by O'Reilly
media, Laura is internationally recognised as a leader in her field.

She is the founder and CEO of SafeStack, leading its operations from
Auckland, New Zealand.

### Chris Berry - Aura Information Security - Offensive Defence

-----

<b>Abstract</b>

Frustrated by the ability to take over corporate networks by exploiting
the same petty misconfigurations for the past several years, I want to
expose blue teamer’s and dev’s to the current internal pen test
strategies, which have proven consistently effective in going from no
auth to domain admin.

<b>Speaker Bio</b>

Chris is a Security Consultant at Aura Information Security with
experience across a broad variety of domains and industries. He is owned
by a cat.

### Catherine McIlvride and Fiona Sasse - Pizza Roulette

-----

<b>Abstract</b>

Catherine and Fiona are security newbies in the world of bleepbloops. As
their hunger for more knowledge on Security Testing grows, they attempt
to chomp into the cyber realm of ordering pizza. Pull up a chair, grab a
slice\* and prepare yourself for a feast\! \*Disclaimer: Pizza will not
be included.

<b>Speaker Bio</b>

Catherine and Fiona are software testers who have been united by their
passion for pizza and their curiosity for wearing black and whites hats.
They hammer and chisel their way through interfaces, databases, and all
other places to identify cracks and gaps. Now they face their next
adventure roaming unfamiliar territory in the security space.

### Ryan Kurte and Kirk Holloway - Auth\* Infrastructure for Everyone

-----

<b>Abstract</b>

Auth(entication |orisation) is tough. We’re going to talk about how it’s
usually done, the developer and user experience of auth\*, and some
things that often go wrong. Then we’re going pitch an idea that might,
hopefully, maybe, help us all build safe exciting things.

<b>Speaker Bio</b>

Ryan is an aspiring hardware whisperer and academic with an incurable
side project problem.

Kirk builds tiny bits of content that go in bigger bits of content for
your local internet box. Combined they form 5/8ths of a full stack
developer.

### Sarah Bennett and Patricia Ramsden - Xero - Guarding the Pot of Gold while the Rainbow gets bigger

-----

<b>Abstract</b>

We've all heard that as an industry we're severely outnumbered
(defenders vs attackers). Many of us become a potential targets due to
the type of market our company is in. The closer to money handling you
are, the more attention you get therefore the more that ratio of
defenders to attackers gets worse. We've seen our adversaries change
over time as we've grown. We'll discuss how our hitting one million paid
subscribers affected us in terms of security, and how the motives of
attackers seem to change with the seasons.

<b>Speaker Bio</b>

TBD

### Ian Welch and Kaishuo Yang - Bermudez: a honeypit designed to waste hacker's time

-----

<b>Abstract</b>

Small enterprises don’t have the human resources to deal with web
attacks 24/7 although attacks can occur anytime. We describe a honeypit
designed to entrap and slow attackers down giving time for a sysadmin to
detect and respond to an attack.

<b>Speaker Bio</b>

Ian works for Victoria University of Wellington (VUW) doing computer
security teaching and research mostly related to honeypots (CaptureHPC)
and more recently software-defined networks (Gasket and Baffle).

Kai is a research assistant at Victoria University of Wellington (VUW).
He developed Bermudez as part of his final year project last year and is
working over summer on a security policy language for software-defined
networks called Baffle.

### Declan Ingram - CERT - Enough theory, how are websites getting hacked in real life?

-----

<b>Abstract</b>

Since opening in April 2017, CERT NZ has dealt with hundreds of hacked
websites. In this talk I propose to step through a few case studies of
what went wrong, and how to stop it from happening to your websites.
This talk will be done specifically for OWASP day and won’t be used for
other audiences.

<b>Speaker Bio</b>

Declan Ingram is the Manager of Operations for CERT NZ and leads the
technical side of CERT NZ – including the Incident Response Team. He has
worked for over 17 years in information security, with broad experience
in both incident response and security testing.

### Tim Goddard - Rails Derailed

-----

<b>Abstract</b>

Modern web application frameworks provide a lot of protections by
default, but no protection is absolute. We explore common, severe
security issues in Ruby on Rails applications, why they still occur
despite its attempts to protect us.

<b>Speaker Bio</b>

Tim (pruby) moved two years ago from being a useful human being and
building web applications, to the more haphazard world of tearing them
apart. He applies his development background and knowledge to review
applications from the ground-up, using the code to inform an efficient
approach to security testing.

### Anupama Natarajan - Unisys New Zealand - Secure APIs: Road to Business Growth

-----

<b>Abstract</b>

Security must never be an afterthought. API Security is key for all
modern digital businesses and secure APIs provide more confidence to the
consumers. Come and learn the art of detecting underprotected APIs and
how to secure them.

<b>Speaker Bio</b>

I am a Software Professional with over 15 years experience in designing
and developing Web, Data Warehouse, Business Intelligence and Mobile
solutions. I am a Microsoft Certified Trainer (MCT) and really
passionate in sharing knowledge. I love solving complex business
problems for my clients with innovative solutions using Microsoft
Technologies and use that experience in my trainings and presentations.
I share tried and tested examples which people can start use in their
organisations immediately.

### Yappare - Timing Based Attacks in Web Applications

-----

<b>Abstract</b>

Timing-based attacks are deadly but often overlooked. Pentesters often
miss such attacks when testing web applications.

By the end of the talk, the audience will learn ways to identify
timing-based webapp vulnerabilities through careful manual and automated
analysis of response generation times.

<b>Speaker Bio</b>

I was a Chemical Engineering graduate but have interest in application
security. 7+ years in penetration testing industry and 5 years in bug
bounty scene and currently at top leaderboard of Bugcrowd. Involving in
these two areas of ‘hacking’ environment, expose me with various ways of
identifying web vulnerabilities.

### Felix Shi - Developer's guide to Deserialization Attacks

-----

<b>Abstract</b>

A beginner friendly talk on deserialization attacks, targeted towards
webapp devs and QA engineers. Heavy emphasis on explaining the attack
vectors, the technical/business impact, and how to test for it.

There will be demos in some popular languages/frameworks - namely
Python, Java, and C\#.

<b>Speaker Bio</b>

Felix works in the security space at an online accounting software
company named Xero. He joined in 2014 and his day job involves securing
and breaking internally developed products. Before Xero he spent his
previous years as a developer, and has been dabbling in the information
security scene in Wellington.

### Tom Isaacson - IoT: How to fight the tyre fire

-----

<b>Abstract</b>

Everyone knows that IoT is a tyre fire but what can we do to start
putting it out? Take a quick tour through the new OWASP IoT Top 10 and
some other (personal) examples of how not to do IoT.

<b>Speaker Bio</b>

I’ve been an embedded developer for 20 years. I haven’t bothered
learning web development because I still think the internet is a passing
fad, but I’ve been forced to think about security after we added
networking to our products.

### Olly - Xero - Finding the path to \#DevSecOps nirvana

-----

<b>Abstract</b>

A talk about my experiences automating security infrastructure in AWS at
Xero. The end goal, things to consider in a security context, the 80/20
rule, convincing people and how to get started. Buzzwords include:
DevOps, DevSecOps, AWS, Cloud, CI/CD, “.\* as code”.

<b>Speaker Bio</b>

Oliver is a Graduate Security Engineer at Xero where he helps build and
deploy security infrastructure into AWS focusing on automation and
repeatability. He is a contributor to Security Monkey, Netflix’s open
source AWS security auditing tool.

### Nick Le Mouton - drugs.com - Thinking like an Attacker (Hacking your own organisation)

-----

<b>Abstract</b>

Often as developers we think like defenders. We identify vulns (SQLi,
XSS etc) and patch them. How often do we think, how far could an
attacker get by using this vuln? What could they do?

It’s easier to get non security buy-in if you can provide a working
exploit to show how serious a vuln is.

<b>Speaker Bio</b>

I started my career as a developer and for the last 20 years I’ve moved
more and more into the security space. I’m currently the CTO for
Drugs.com, but spend a lot of time reading through legacy code and
identifying areas of concern/exploiting vulnerabilities.

### Rory Shillington - VoltsAndBits - When Shoestrings Snap

-----

<b>Abstract</b>

Have you ever fed a sheep to a wolf? Every day, charities, non-profit
organisations and small businesses get devoured by online threats. Let’s
take a look at what’s happening both at the keyboard and IRL/AFK.

<b>Speaker Bio</b>

Rory Shillington is an electrical engineer trying to save polar bears by
day, and a jack of all admins by night.

When not designing, testing and breaking solar inverters, he helps a
small handful of clients navigate the minefields of the internet while
keeping their websites patched (arrr). He has a strong passion for
computer security with a number of years of hands-on experience, and a
tendency of venturing questionable distances to solve other people’s
problems. He also maintains a number of hobby and community websites.

### Jens Dietrich - Massey University - Evil Pickles: DoS Attacks Based on Object-Graph Engineering

-----

<b>Abstract</b>

Evil pickles is a new type of degradation of service attack inspired by
billion laughs. It exploits the object serialisation interface present
in most modern languages (such as Java, C\#, Ruby), and can be used to
exhaust resources including CPU time, stack and heap memory of the
systems attacked.

<b>Speaker Bio</b>

Jens is an Associate Professor at Massey University Turitea Palmerston
North. Jens has a MSc in Mathematics and a PhD in Computer Science from
the University of Leipzig. After graduating in 1996, he worked as a
software consultant, participating in some of the first large-scale
enterprise-level projects that used object-oriented programming
(Smalltalk and later Java) and agile principles. Clients he worked for
include Mercedes-Benz, Volkswagen and some of the largest German banks.
He moved to Namibia in 1999, working for a development aid agency to
establish a computing curriculum at the local university of applied
science. He continued with freelance consulting work for European and US
clients during this time, and started several open source projects. In
2003 he moved to New Zealand to take up a position at Massey. Jens’
research interest are in the areas of software modularisation, evolution
and static analysis for bug and vulnerability detection. He currently
leads a National Science Challenge project on program analysis, and his
research on fast algorithms for static analysis of large Java programs
has been supported by several rounds of funding by Oracle Incl (through
Oracle Labs Brisbane). Jens is executive member of Software Innovation
NZ (SI^NZ) and member of the ACM.

### Karan Sharma - Enough with XSS, let's talk about something else?

-----

<b>Abstract</b>

I think it is time to lift our game and think beyond classic vulns such
as XSS, CSRF, Dir Traversal, SQLi and talk about recent web vulns which
are becoming more and more common and being exploited in the wild these
days like IDOR, XXE, SSRF, DOM Clobbering, RPO and Insecure
Cryptographic Storage.

<b>Speaker Bio</b>

Working as a Security Consultant at one of the leading financial
institute of NZ. Very passionate about web app security and have been
doing it for over 6 years. Love building and breaking stuff especially
web apps and IoT stuff. I spend my days testing web apps and network
infrastructure for vulnerabilities and then help mitigate what I find.

Like to code in node.js on embedded devices and love building Web of
Things oppose to Internet of Things (no pun intended).

### Dion Bramley - Secure development in Go

-----

<b>Abstract</b>

Google loves Go, and they claim it makes secure development much easier
for people who aren’t teams of seasoned security experts. But what makes
it so special? Why should you choose Go for your next secure API
project? How to do secure Go. And why it can be a really terrible option
for some projects

<b>Speaker Bio</b>

I have been working in software since 2012 using a wide range of
languages. Currently I work at Spalk Ltd (yuck, sports) as a senior
engineer building APIs and streaming services, and teaching interns. I
studied a combination of computer science and computer engineering at
UoA for 5 years. Sometimes I do free security and (engineering) design
consulting for startups and charities. Hobbies include theatre, gaming,
and helping people be awesome.

### Sam Shute - Quantum Security - Riding someone else’s wave with CSRF

-----

<b>Abstract</b>

Cross-site request forgery is one of the common vulnerabilities we are
seeing in pen tests. It can be used to create or delete accounts,
escalate privileges, and perform other actions. This talk will cover
what it is, common issues and how to properly defend against it.

<b>Speaker Bio</b>

Sam is a security consultant with Quantum Security. While relatively new
to the security industry he spent the last 7 years studying various
security topics at the University of Waikato. Sam has been an organiser
and challenge developer of the New Zealand Cyber Security Challenge for
the last 3 years. His areas of interest include behavioral biometrics,
the physical/digital security overlap and breaking IoT devices.

### David Pearce - Secure Your Programming Future\!

-----

<b>Abstract</b>

Can programming languages help us write secure code? It’s an age-old
question. New languages come and go, but don’t often seem that
different. But wait\! You haven’t seen anything like Whiley before.
Forget about type checking. This is a whole new level. You might think
the demo is faked. It’s not.

<b>Speaker Bio</b>

David graduated with a PhD from Imperial College London in 2005, and
took up a lecturer position at Victoria University of Wellington, NZ.
David’s PhD thesis was on efficient algorithms for pointer analysis of
C, and his techniques have since been incorporated into GCC. His
interests are in programming languages, compilers and static analysis.
Since 2009, he has been developing the Whiley Programming Language which
is designed specifically to simplify program verification. David has
previously interned at Bell Labs, New Jersey, where he worked on
compilers for FPGAs; and also at IBM Hursely, UK, where he worked with
the AspectJ development team on profiling systems.

### Alex Hogue - Atlassian - Operation Luigi: How I hacked my friend without her noticing

-----

<b>Abstract</b>

My friend gave me permission to “hack all her stuff” and this is my
story. It’s about what I tried, what worked, my many flubs, and how easy
it is to compromise Non Paranoid People TM.

<b>Speaker Bio</b>

Alex is your conference speaker, your best friend, and your sweet mango
boy. Alex fell off the back of a gently glowing ute 17 years ago, and
now haunts the Earth in corporeal form. Critics have called him
“aggressively wonky”. He does incident detection and response at
Atlassian, which is kiiinda like being an adult. Catch him scratching
out MEMBERS ONLY signs into MEMERS ONLY.

### David Waters - Pushpay - Handling Of A PCI Incident - PANs In The Database

-----

<b>Abstract</b>

Are you storing credit card numbers in your database when you’re not
meant to? Would you know? We will be briefly cover PCI, and telling the
story of the discovery of PANs in our pipeline. Then describe the full
journey from discovery, to recovery to future prevention.

<b>Speaker Bio</b>

David is a Senior Software Engineer/Tech Lead and one of the leaders of
the Secure Coding Guild at Pushpay, David previously worked for 3 years
in the security industry including 1 year in the Security Team at Google
in London and draws on 19 years experience as a systems and web
developer, primarily working in .NET, Java and JavaScript.

# Diversity fund

## Diversity and Financial Aid fund

**The Diversity and Financial Aid assistance fund has now closed. If you
find yourself stuck and need assistance, please get in touch with
kirk.jackson@owasp.org and we'll see what we can do.**

\[We have unashamedly followed the model adopted by the nz.js(con) team
with their fund. Many thanks to Jen and the team\!\]

Due to the support of our lovely sponsors, we have some additional
funding available to help people from around New Zealand attend the
OWASP NZ Day that would find it hard to otherwise attend. In particular,
we welcome applications from women, people of colour, LGBTIQ and all
others. You all deserve to be able to learn more about security, and
we’ll do our darndest to help make that happen\!

Our funds are limited, and we’ll be reviewing applications every two
weeks starting in December. Submit your applications soon, so we can
approve them early and you’ll be in several review cycles\!

Process:

  - Fill out our [application
    form](https://docs.google.com/forms/d/e/1FAIpQLSeTPgNCXb-3FIKetzBtTSwe1IXYckmADCK5sXPdiWRu8mdI6g/viewform)
  - We will review and approve applications each two weeks. The next
    review date is in Dec 2017.
  - We will contact all applicants and let them know the result of the
    review.
  - Successful applicants will be contacted to help sort things out.

We use the following criteria to help us decide who gets approved:

  - We are biased towards (but not exclusively for) diverse applicants.
  - We do attempt to maximise cost efficiency and will aim to get as
    many people to OWASP with our limited funds.

Each successful recipient can choose whether to be kept anonymous (in
which case only the OWASP NZ committee will know the details of your
funding), or to be put in touch with the supporting company whose
sponsorship is going towards your attendance. We think some of our
sponsors may enjoy the opportunity to chat with you on the day talk
about your experiences and plans for the future, but that’s totally
optional and up to you.

If you have any questions, feel free to drop us an email:
nick.malcolm@owasp.org | kirk.jackson@owasp.org | kim.carter@owasp.org

# Code of Conduct

## Code of Conduct

We want to make the OWASP NZ Day a welcoming environment for all
attendees. To that end, we would like to remind you of OWASP's
anti-harassment policy:
[1](https://www.owasp.org/index.php/Governance/Conference_Policies),
including the **Anti-Harassment Policy**, **Privacy Policy**, and
**OWASP Code of Conduct**.

Speakers, trainers and sponsors have all been reminded of these
policies, and are expected to abide by them like all attendees.

If you have any concerns during the day, please seek out Kirk, Nick or
Kim. We will make ourselves visible at the start of the day so you know
what we look like.

<headertabs></headertabs>

[Category:OWASP AppSec
Conference](Category:OWASP_AppSec_Conference "wikilink")