## Andres Riancho - Bio

[Andrés Riancho](http://www.bonsai-sec.com/) is an information security
researcher and founder of [Bonsai](http://www.bonsai-sec.com/), where he
is mainly involved in [Penetration
Testing](http://www.bonsai-sec.com/en/services/penetration-testing.php)
and Vulnerability Research. In the research field, he discovered
critical vulnerabilities in IPS appliances from 3com and ISS; and
contributed with SAP research performed at his former employer.

His main focus has always been the [Web Application
Security](http://www.bonsai-sec.com/) field, in which he developed
[w3af](http://w3af.sf.net/) a Web Application Attack and Audit Framework
used extensively by penetration testers and security consultants. Andrés
has spoken and hold trainings at many security conferences around the
globe, like OWASP World C0n (USA), CanSecWest (Canada), T2 (Finland) and
ekoparty (Buenos Aires).

Andrés founded [Bonsai](http://www.bonsai-sec.com/) in 2009 in order to
further research into automated [Web Application Vulnerability
detection](http://www.bonsai-sec.com/) and exploitation.

## Talk abstract

Web application auditing and exploiting is an art, but even art needs
help of tools to make the process faster and more accurate. Right now
open source tools like nikto, wapiti, pantera and others try to find
vulnerabilities in web applications but lack many features and
configuration options. Comercial tools have the features, at the expense
of high product costs, and aren't as dynamic as open source projects.

[w3af](http://w3af.sf.net/) ( Web Application Attack and Audit Framework
) is an open source project that aims to automate the detection and
explotation of all web application vulnerabilities. The project
objective is to become an open platform where anyone can contribute with
code and new technics. [w3af](http://w3af.sf.net/) is extended using
plugins that are fully written in python, right now the project has more
than 80 plugins and 30K lines of code\!

The framework is divided into three phases: discovery, audit and attack.
All plugins smoothly communicate with each other and **work together**
to achieve the objective; w3af replaces standalone tools and makes web
penetration testing as easy as possible; any wierd characteristic can be
added as a plugin and consume all the features of the framework.

[w3af](http://w3af.sf.net/) implements many exploit plugins and features
to aid this process, not less important are the discovery and audit
plugins that will find those vulnerabilities for you to exploit\!
[w3af](http://w3af.sf.net/) one tool to rule them all.

My talk will introduce this tool to new users, while showing it's
features and the new GUI.