## Main Links

  - [OWASP Spring Of Code 2007](OWASP_Spring_Of_Code_2007 "wikilink") -
    main page
  - [SpoC 007
    Logo](https://www.owasp.org/index.php/Image:290px-OWASP_SpoC2007_Logo.jpg)
  - [OWASP Spring Of Code 2007 : Press
    Release](OWASP_Spring_Of_Code_2007_:_Press_Release "wikilink") - The
    press release
  - [OWASP Spring Of Code 2007 Project
    Ideas](OWASP_Spring_Of_Code_2007_Project_Ideas "wikilink") - If you
    are looking for projects to do
  - [OWASP Spring Of Code 2007
    Applications](OWASP_Spring_Of_Code_2007_Applications "wikilink") -
    Where to submit Applications
  - [OWASP Spring Of Code 2007 :
    Selection](OWASP_Spring_Of_Code_2007_:_Selection "wikilink") - The
    selection criteria and links to each selected project page
  - [OWASP Spring Of Code 2007 -
    Payments](OWASP_Spring_Of_Code_2007_-_Payments "wikilink") -
    Authorized and/or Made Payments
  - [OWASP Spring Of Code 2007 -
    Projects](OWASP_Spring_Of_Code_2007_-_Projects "wikilink") - Project
    Name and Description, Author, Coordination, Status

## Updates

  - November 2008 – SpoC 07 is closed. [21 projects were sponsored with
    a budget of
    $117,500](OWASP_Spring_Of_Code_2007_-_Projects "wikilink").

## Overview

![SpoC_007.jpg](SpoC_007.jpg "SpoC_007.jpg")

The OWASP Spring of Code 2007 (SpoC 007) aims to financially sponsor
contributions to OWASP Projects. *SpoC 007* follows up the successful
AoC 06 ([OWASP Autumn Of Code
2006](OWASP_Autumn_Of_Code_2006 "wikilink")) in which 9 projects were
sponsored and greatly improved.

The objective of *SpoC 007* is to allow contributors to allocate
considerable resources on (existent or new) OWASP projects which are
relevant and benefitial to the OWASP community.

The initial Budget for *SpoC 007* will be $110,000 USD, and it is funded
by OWASP (using current membership fees and profits from past
conferences) and newly joined members (currently SPI Dynamics and EDS).
In parallel with the *Request for Proposals* OWASP is also doing a
membership drive where all membership fees commited during that period
will be allocated to *SpoC 007* projects (the new members have the
option to chose which projects they would like to sponsor)

The *SpoC 007* structure and organization is very similar to the AoC 06
(see [OWASP Autumn Of Code 2006](OWASP_Autumn_Of_Code_2006 "wikilink"),
[OWASP Autumn of Code 2006 -
Applications](OWASP_Autumn_of_Code_2006_-_Applications "wikilink") and
[OWASP Autumn of Code 2006 -
Selection](OWASP_Autumn_of_Code_2006_-_Selection "wikilink") for more
details.) whereby the major changes are: Bigger budget (with a $20,000
USD sponsorship), the special project: "10 Donations to Open Source
projects" and an Intership

The OWASP Spring Of Code 2007 was launched on the 14th of March 2007
(see [OWASP Spring Of Code 2007 : Press
Release](OWASP_Spring_Of_Code_2007_:_Press_Release "wikilink")) and is
not connected to the Google Summer of Code.

For more details please contact Dinis Cruz (dinis.cruz at owasp dot net)
directly.

## SpoC 007 Budget

The current budget is $110,000 USD (subject to increase pending new
memberships):

  - Funding sources:
      - $92,000 USD - OWASP
      - $9,000 USD - SPI Dynamics (to be allocated to OWASP
        SiteGenerator project)
      - $9,000 USD - EDS
  - Proposed budget allocation
      - $20,000 on 1 Large project
      - $50,000 on Big projects - 10 projects @ $5,000 each
      - $20,000 on Medium projects - 8 projects @ $2,500 each
      - $10,000 on 1 internship (at Aspect's offices)
      - $10,000 on Donations to Open Source projects: 10 donations of
        $1,000 each

Projects will be managed by the OWASP Project leader. Oversight will be
provided by Andrew van der Stock, Jeff Williams, Dinis Cruz, and/or Dave
Wichers.

Payments can be made via Wire Transfer, US Check or PayPal in 2 stages:
50% halfway and 50% on completion.

Note: the proposed budget allocation is just a guideline and the final
values will be adjusted based on the sucessful proposals.

## Who Can Apply?

There are no geographical, age or any other form of restrictions of who
can apply for an "OWASP Spring Of Code 2007" sponsorship.

The only requirement is that the candidate shows the potential to
accomplish the project's objectives and the commitment to dedicate the
time required to complete it in the allocated time frame (projects must
be completed by 9th July 2007).

This means that current active OWASP Project contributors (including
Project leaders) can apply (for obvious reasons, the only ones that
can't apply are Dinis, Dave, Jeff and Andrew)

## How To Participate

Select a project you want to work on and write a proposal :)

For ideas on projects that OWASP is looking to sponsor see the current
list of [:Category:OWASP_Projects](:Category:OWASP_Project "wikilink")
and the [OWASP Spring Of Code 2007 Project
Ideas](OWASP_Spring_Of_Code_2007_Project_Ideas "wikilink") page

To submit a project, you will need to submit it (i.e. post it) on the
[OWASP Spring Of Code 2007
Applications](OWASP_Spring_Of_Code_2007_Applications "wikilink") page
(DON'T send your propoposal direcly). Note that no sensitive personal
details should be posted in that page (full name, address, credit cards,
SSN, ATM pin numbers, private PKI keys, etc...).

Once you are happy with it, send an email to Dinis Cruz (dinis.cruz at
owasp dot net) with the following details:

  - Link to your proposal
  - Contact details
  - Additional information about your proposal (for example in the AoC
    some proposals were supported by a PDF with additional details)

Dinis (and the relevant project leader) can also be contacted to discuss
issues related to *SpoC 007* applications (for example project ideas,
review of draft proposals, etc...)

## Schedule

**Main dates**

  - 14th March – 'OWASP Spring of Code' initiative is officially
    launched
  - 9th April - Deadline for project proposals
  - 17th April - Publish of selected projects and start of SpoC projects
  - **5th November** - **Project Completion, participants to deliver
    final project report** (and receive payment of final 50%)

**Project milestones**

  - 1st April - Start of Vote for the Donations to Open Source Projects
  - 30th April - End of Vote for the Donations to Open Source Projects
  - 16th May - Update of Project status on OWASP Conference in Italy
  - 17th May - Announcement of the winners of the '10 Donations to Open
    Source projects' on OWASP Conference in Italy
  - 21st May - Participants to report on project status (and receive
    payment of initial 50%)

## Special Project: 10 $1,000 USD grants to Open Source projects

As part of the *SpoC 007* budget, OWASP will distribute 10 $1,000 USD
grants to 10 Open Source projects selected as very usefull by the OWASP
community.

These grants are a no-strings attached **"Thanks for the hard work in
creating this tool (which is widely used and appreciated in the OWASP
community) and please keep working on the next version"**.

OWASP Members (and only the members) will be asked to vote on the top 10
Open Source projects they use regularly and find useful. Each corporate
member vote will be count for 10 points and each individual members vote
count for 1 point.

The payments will be be made to the top 10 scored projects.

Of course that OWASP projects are excluded from the voting since they
can apply to *SpoC 007* directly.

In the future (i.e. when enough budget is avaialble), OWASP would like
to extend this Special Project to include a a $10,000 USD (per project)
source code review exercise.

## Membership Drive, Specific project sponsorship and match funding

As part of the *SpoC 007* initiative OWASP would like to invite
individuals and companies that benefit from OWASP projects to join OWASP
as a member (see [Membership](Membership "wikilink") for more details).
In addition to the current [Membership
benefits](Membership#Benefits_of_Membership "wikilink"), new members
will be able to allocate their membership fees to projects that are
interrested in (for example SPI Dynamics is sponsoring the [OWASP
SiteGenerator](OWASP_SiteGenerator "wikilink") project).

#### Specific project sponsorship

In addition, if your (i.e. your company) has a particular requirement
which a current OWASP project has the potential to fulfill, and you
realize that it will be cheaper for you to sponsor that project with a
couple of developers, please contact Dinis Cruz with your requirements,
ideas, time-scales and budget.

#### Match Funding

Another alternative will be to 'match fund' OWASP project sponsorships,
for example project XYZ gets a sponsorship of $30,000 USD with 15,000
from OWASP and 15,000 from an interrested party

## The Rules bit

  - By participating and submiting your application you authorize OWASP
    to publicize your participation in the program and the results of
    the program for the purposes of executing on program logistics,
    including but not limited to announcements of accepted proposals,
    the text of the accepted proposal and the resulting code from work
    on the project. Additional details solicited by OWASP as part of the
    application process, including URLs for personal blogs, will be
    shared with the public with the accepted applicant's permission.
  - All project's deliverables will be publicly hosted by OWASP.
  - All code / materials created by the participants must be released
    under an Open Source Initiative approved license. The participant
    may mirror development on her/his personal infrastructure at her/his
    option.
  - OWASP reserves the right, at its sole discretion, to revoke any and
    all privileges associated with participating in this program, and to
    take any other action it deems appropriate, for no reason or any
    reason whatsoever. OWASP reserves the right to cancel, terminate or
    modify the program if it is not capable of completion as planned for
    any reason.
  - Participants and OWASP is free to use the results, including code,
    of the OWASP Spring of Code Program in any way they choose provided
    it is not in conflict with the license under which the code was
    developed.
  - Basically, if you don't deliver you will NOT be paid
  - No member of the OWASP board is allowed to apply to a SpoC
    sponsorship (Dinis, Dave, Andrew and Jeff)

## The important bit

  - yes there will be a t-shirt available for all participants

[Category:OWASP Season of
Code](Category:OWASP_Season_of_Code "wikilink")