# Overview

## OWASP Project Stages

Projects, along with Global Conferences and Local Chapters, are the
cornerstone of the OWASP organization. We want to provide a fostering
environment for new ideas and energetic project leaders; however, our
global consumers depend on OWASP to provide dependable, quality
projects. Our OWASP Project Stages represent a balance between keeping a
very loose structure around OWASP projects, and ensuring that OWASP
consumers are not confused about a project’s maturity and quality.

Our lifecycle stages allow consumers to easily identify mature projects,
and projects that are proofs of concept, experimental, and classified as
prototypes in their current state. The greater the maturity of the
project, the greater the level of responsibility for the project leader.
These responsibilities are not trivial as OWASP provides incentives and
benefits for projects who take on these added responsibilities.

The OWASP Project Lifecycle is broken down into the following stages:

::::::\***OWASP Incubator Projects**

::::::\***OWASP Labs Projects**

::::::\***OWASP Flagship Projects**

Each of these stages is described in greater detail in the sections that
follow. At a minimum, all OWASP projects have a project name, a project
leader, a project description, a project license choice, and a project
roadmap. The goal of an OWASP Project is to create a concrete
deliverable that furthers the OWASP mission. Projects are divided into 3
main categories: Tool, Code Library, and Documentation. On this page,
you will find more detailed information about what you can expect from a
project at each of the OWASP Project stages.

# Incubator Projects

## Incubator Projects

![New_projects.png](New_projects.png "New_projects.png")

OWASP Incubator projects represent the experimental playground where
projects are still being designed, ideas are still being proven, and
development is still underway. The “OWASP Incubator” label allows OWASP
consumers to readily identify a project’s maturity. The label allows
project leaders to leverage the OWASP name while their project is still
maturing. OWASP Incubator projects are given a place on the OWASP
Projects Portal to leverage the organization's infrastructure, and
establish their presence and project history. Many of the benefits and
privileges afforded to projects are dependent upon metrics and
statistics that are tracked by the OWASP Projects Infrastructure.

### Incubator Project Deliverables

Leaders of Incubator Projects are expected to produce a draft or
development release as a downloadable file on the project page within
twelve (12) months of project inception. As previously mentioned, OWASP
believes in pursuing ideas in a fail-fast manner. In order to avoid an
excess of stagnant projects that never mature, projects will not be
permitted to linger in an undeveloped state beyond this time period. If
a project has not produced at least a draft or development release, the
project will be removed from the OWASP Projects Portal. If a project
leader subsequently produces a completed release and wishes to
re-associate with OWASP Projects, then that project can be returned to
the OWASP Projects Portal.

Once a project leader has completed at least one version of a concrete
deliverable, the project is eligible for graduation into the OWASP Labs.
Note that graduation to the OWASP Labs is optional, and a project leader
that has completed at least one concrete deliverable may continue in the
OWASP Incubator stage.

# Lab Projects

## Lab Projects

![Midlevel_projects.png](Midlevel_projects.png "Midlevel_projects.png")

OWASP Lab projects represent projects that have produced a deliverable
of significant value. Leaders of OWASP Lab projects are expected to
stand behind the quality of their projects as these projects have
matured to the point where they are accepted by a significant portion of
the OWASP community. While these projects are typically not production
ready, the OWASP community expects that an OWASP Lab project leader is
producing deliverables that are ready for mainstream usage.

OWASP Lab projects are meant to be the collection of established
projects that have gained community support and acclaim by undergoing
the project review process. These reviews are part of the Incubator
Graduation Process that is required to enter the OWASP Lab stage. To
enter OWASP Lab, projects must be actively maintained, they must meet
the OWASP Lab project standards, and they must seek to provide value to
OWASP consumers.

In recognition of these qualities, OWASP Lab projects have a primary
spotlight in the OWASP Projects Portal, and they receive increased
promotional opportunities within the OWASP organization. While projects
that graduate to the OWASP Lab can remain there indefinitely, project
activity is a prominently featured piece of metadata on the Projects
Portal. As a result, projects without periodic activity will be
automatically tagged as inactive. As a result, project leaders are
encouraged to maintain the level of excellence attributed to Lab
projects.

# Flagship Projects

## Flagship Projects

![Mature_projects.png](Mature_projects.png "Mature_projects.png")

The goal of OWASP Flagship projects is to identify, highlight, and
support mainstream OWASP projects that make up a complete application
security product of high quality and value to the software security
industry. These projects are selected for their strategic value to OWASP
and application security as a whole.

OWASP Flagship projects represent projects that are not only mature, but
are also projects that OWASP as an organization provides direct support
to maintaining. The core mission of OWASP is to make application
security visible and so as an organization, OWASP has a vested interest
in the success of its Flagship projects. Since Flagship projects have
such high visibility, these projects are expected to uphold the most
stringent requirements of all OWASP Projects.

Selection for OWASP Flagship designation is by invitation only. A Labs
project leader can present their case for why they think their project
deserves Flagship status. However, there is no deterministic process to
be designated a Flagship project. There are no steps to be followed that
guarantee Flagship status. This status is reserved for the strategic use
of OWASP to identify a platform that supports the OWASP mission to
improve the state of application security via OWASP's open source
projects.

# Inactive Projects

## Inactive Projects

Projects become inactive in those occasions where a project leader is no
longer able to manage their project and has not be able to find a
suitable replacement for the leader role or when the project leader
feels his/her project has become obsolete. The Project Abandonment
Process was put in place for such occasions. Under these circumstances,
the acting project leader is encourage to submit the Project Abandonment
Form. Once a request has been received, the project in question will be
archived and labeled as an Inactive project.

# Low Activity Projects

## Low Activity Projects

Projects might have a recession period of activity, especially after
they have reached a certain level of maturity, however the content could
be outdated based on the amount of time (6 months/ 1 year) .