## Open Letter to Browsers

Dear <BROWSER> representative,

The Open Web Application Security Project (OWASP,
<http://www.owasp.org>) is honored to invite you to the European Summit
2008 to take part in the Intrinsic Security Working Group workshop on
Browser Security. The point of the workshop is to gather security
experts and browser security teams/developers together in order to
facilitate introducing more and more usable security into the browsers
that all our customers use and the specifications and standards that we
rely on.

OWASP would happily cover part of your expenses to the beautiful
Algarve, Portugal where the workshops and conference are being held,
although we would prefer self-sponsorship. More information on dates and
logistics can be found on the conference website, which is still under
limited construction:

<http://www.owasp.org/index.php/OWASP_EU_Summit_2008>

Please let us know as soon as possible your availability for the
conference. If you can't make it and can suggest an alternative contact
from your team, we would appreciate it greatly.

Thanks,
Arshan Dabirsiaghi
arshan.dabirsiaghi@aspectsecurity.com
Project Lead, ISWG
OWASP

## Open Letter to Frameworks

Dear <FRAMEWORK> representative,

The Open Web Application Security Project (OWASP,
<http://www.owasp.org>) is honored to invite you to the European Summit
2008 to take part in the Intrinsic Security Working Group workshop on
Framework Security. The point of the workshop would be to gather
security experts and framework developers/security teams together in
order to facilitate introducing more and more usable security into the
frameworks that we build our applications on.

OWASP would happily cover part of your expenses to the beautiful
Algarve, Portugal where the workshops and conference are being held,
although we would prefer self-sponsorship. More information on dates and
logistics can be found on the conference website, which is still under
limited construction:

<http://www.owasp.org/index.php/OWASP_EU_Summit_2008>

Please let us know as soon as possible your availability for the
conference. If you can't make it and can suggest an alternative contact
from the developer team or security team, we would appreciate it
greatly.

Thanks,
Arshan Dabirsiaghi
Project Lead, ISWG
OWASP

## Open Letter to Frameworks (version for open mailing lists)

Dear <FRAMEWORK> list,

The Open Web Application Security Project (OWASP,
<http://www.owasp.org>) is holding an Intrinsic Security Working Group
(ISWG) workshop on Framework Security. The point of the workshop is to
gather security experts and framework developers/security teams together
in order to facilitate introducing more and more usable security into
the frameworks that we build our applications on.

OWASP would be pleased to see as many of you as possible in the
beautiful Algarve, Portugal where the workshops and conference are being
held. More information on dates and logistics can be found on the
conference website:

<http://www.owasp.org/index.php/OWASP_EU_Summit_2008>

However, if one 'official' representative from your framework, such as a
leader or a senior person from the developer or security team, is
available and OWASP is allowed to use the framework logo on the Working
Session page at:

<http://www.owasp.org/index.php/OWASP_Working_Session_-_Web_Application_Framework_Security>

OWASP would then happily cover part of the expenses of attendance for
the one official representative. To discuss this official representative
offer, please contact Arshan Dabirsiaghi as soon as possible, since the
offer may be withdrawn at any time.

Sent on behalf of,
Arshan Dabirsiaghi
arshan.dabirsiaghi@aspectsecurity.com
Project Lead, ISWG
OWASP

by Colin Watson
OWASP individual member, London