**OWASP and Licensing**

The OWASP Foundation uses several licenses to distribute software,
documentation, and other materials. Contact us for agreements concerning
acceptance of materials from individuals and corporations, such as
existing documents or software projects. These licenses help us ensure
that OWASP projects are supported longterm, and the materials produced
can be easily used and are free and open to everyone.

## Use of the OWASP Brand

The use of the OWASP Brand is covered by the [OWASP brand usage
rules](OWASP_brand_usage_rules "wikilink").

## Licensing of OWASP Website Content

We welcome the use of OWASP website content. If you would like to use
anything from the wiki in another work, you must follow the terms of the
[Creative Commons Attribution ShareAlike 3.0 license
(CC-BY-SA)](http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/3.0/). We strongly
encourage organizations to use OWASP materials for their internal
purposes. If you want to distribute modified OWASP materials externally,
you must make them available under the CC-BY-SA license - preferably by
making your improvements directly at OWASP. Thanks\!

## Licensing of OWASP Projects

All software, documentation, and other materials produced by The OWASP
Foundation or any OWASP Project is licensed according to an open source
license as defined by the [Open Source Initiative (OSI)
organization](http://opensource.org/licenses/category). For licensing
questions, please contact us at <projects@owasp.org>.

In an effort to help OWASP Project leaders choose the appropriate
license for their project, the Global Project Committee recommends the
following open source licenses. Understand that these licenses are only
recommendations and Project Leaders are welcome to use any [Open Source
Initiative (OSI) organization](http://opensource.org/licenses/category)
approved license they wish.

## Contributor License Agreements

OWASP desires that all contributors of ideas, code, or documentation to
the OWASP projects complete, sign, and submit (via snailmail or fax) a
[Contributor License
Agreement](Contributor_License_Agreement "wikilink"). The purpose of
this agreement is to clearly define the terms under which intellectual
property has been contributed to OWASP and thereby allow us to defend
the project should there be a legal dispute regarding the software at
some future time. All contributions made through the website are covered
by the clickthrough license on the account creation page.

## Assignment of Copyright Agreement

In the case that the contributor desire to assign copyright to the OWASP
Foundation, please use the [Assignment of Copyright
Agreement](Assignment_of_Copyright_Agreement "wikilink"). Assignment of
copyright is not strictly necessary but is an option available to those
contributors who would prefer that the OWASP Foundation hold the
copyright for contributed materials.