## The Presentation: "OWASP Live CD: An open environment for Web Application Security"

The OWASP Live CD is a project that collects some of the best open
source security projects in a single environment. Web developers,
testers and security professionals can boot from this Live CD and have
access to a full security testing suite. This allows its users to test
for various security issues in web applications and web sites. The Live
CD also contains documentation and an interactive learning environment
to enhance users web application security knowledge. This presentation
will cover the current state of the OWASP Live CD as well as the plans
for future developments. Time permitting, a live demonstration of the
OWASP Live CD will be conducted. The OWASP Live CD is a project of the
Open Web Application Security Project (OWASP) and is free for commercial
or non-commercial use. More information is available at:
<http://www.owasp.org/index.php/Category:OWASP_Live_CD_Project>

Download: [OWASP_Live_CD.pdf‎](Media:OWASP_Live_CD.pdf‎‎ "wikilink")

## The Speaker: Matt Tesauro

Matt Tesauro has worked in web application development and security
since 2000. He has worn many different hats, from developer to DBA to
System Administrator to Penetration Tester. Matt also taught graduate
and undergraduate classes on web application development and XML at the
Texas A\&M Mays Business School. Currently, he's focused on web
application security and developing a Secure SDLC for TEA. Outside work,
he is the project lead for the OWASP Live CD Project and is also a
member of the OWASP Global Projects Committee. Matt Tesauro has a B.S.
in Economics and a M.S in Management Information Systems from Texas A\&M
University. He is also has the CISSP, CEH (Certified Ethical Hacker),
RHCE (Red Hat Certified Engineer), and Linux+ certifications.

[back to Presentation
Agenda](OWASP_Software_Assurance_Day_DC_2009#Agenda_and_Presentations:_13_March_2009 "wikilink")