The OWASP Track initiative, jointly led by the [Global Conferences
Committee](Global_Conferences_Committee "wikilink") and the [Global
Projects Committee](Global_Projects_Committee "wikilink"), is a new
effort to help OWASP promote our projects and activities at our own
major conferences. The goal of this track is to highlight and promote
OWASP and offer our leaders a chance to showcase their activities. As
such, we will be using a different type of CFP from those typically
issued. Submissions should highlight a particular OWASP project or
activity that is important to the community at large. The joint GCC/GPC
program committee will be judging these submissions on a variety of
factors, including project/activity maturity, strategic value to OWASP,
relevance to the event audience, and past presentation performance. We
intend to highlight brand new projects and activities along with
established ones, so new project leaders should not be discouraged from
applying\! Keep in mind though that we are looking for polished
presentations so it will help your submission if you can demonstrate
that your project/activity has made recent strides in improving quality.

Presenters that perform well in their OWASP Track talk will be invited
to join the [OWASP Speakers Group](OWASP_Speakers_Group "wikilink").

# Open CFPs

[AppSec
ASIAPAC 2012](https://docs.google.com/a/owasp.org/spreadsheet/viewform?formkey=dHB4VGJPWmV5cUxBRmJuY1pETklrcEE6MQ)

# Submission Guidelines

**Submissions must:**

  - Be about active OWASP Projects or activities
  - Either 50 Minute or 15 Minute format (selection based on individual
    conference requirements)
  - Authors must agree to the OWASP \[Speaker Agreement\]
  - Comply to the applicable [Global Conferences Committee
    Policies](Global_Conferences_Committee/Policies "wikilink") (all
    events & speakers)
  - Be OWASP branded, no company templates (presenters must limit
    mention of their employer to a company logo on the concluding slide
    of their presentation)

**Recommendations:**

  - Presentations that provide a link to a recording of previous
    presenter performance will be scored significantly higher
  - Presentations on active Projects

# Selection Criteria

This is a very different CFP when compared to what most people expect
from CFPs. Much of the rating and criteria will be subjectively, not
objectively based. This is necessary to promote strategic OWASP elements
as well as facilitate a polished OWASP image. Presentation skill will be
considered as a key factor in the review in addition to content which is
a departure from most CFPs. Additionally, the requirements of each event
as well as topics the Program Committee wishes to highlight will change
over time, therefore we expect this to be a highly competitive and
dynamic CFP.

**Presentations will be rated on:**

  - Project/activity maturity
  - Strategic value to OWASP
  - Delivery performance
  - Relevance to the event audience

# Travel

Limited OWASP funds are available to support travel for selected
presenters. We will ask that presenters first solicit funding from their
employers for travel to the event. The presentation material must be
OWASP branded however, mention of a presenter's employer via a company
logo on the concluding slide of their presentation is permitted. Economy
travel, hotel and per-diem will be provided via the [Global Conferences
Committee](Global_Conferences_Committee "wikilink") budget and will be
subject to committee travel rules (found in the [Global Conferences
Committee
Governance](Global_Conferences_Committee/Governance "wikilink")
document)