__NOTOC__

<div align="center" style="text-align: center; font-size: 200%; font-weight: bold; margin: 10px auto;">

O<small>WASP</small> M<small>AKES</small> N<small>O</small>
G<small>UARANTEE</small> O<small>F</small> V<small>ALIDITY</small>

</div>

**OWASP** is an online open-content collaborative project, that is, a
voluntary association of individuals and groups who are developing a
common resource of human knowledge. The structure of the project allows
anyone with an Internet connection and World Wide Web browser to alter
its content. Please be advised that nothing found here has necessarily
been reviewed by professionals with the expertise required to provide
you with complete, accurate or reliable information.

That is not to say that you will not find valuable and accurate
information in *OWASP*; much of the time you will. However, ***OWASP*
cannot guarantee the validity of the information found here.** The
content of any given article may recently have been changed, vandalized
or altered by someone whose opinion does not correspond with the state
of knowledge in the relevant fields.

### No formal peer review

We are working on ways to select and highlight reliable versions of
articles. Our active community of editors uses tools such as the
[Special:Recentchanges](Special:Recentchanges "wikilink") and
[Special:Newpages](Special:Newpages "wikilink") feeds to monitor new and
changing content. However, *OWASP* is not uniformly peer reviewed; while
readers may correct errors or engage in casual peer review, they have no
legal duty to do so and thus all information read here is without any
implied warranty of fitness for any purpose or use whatsoever. Even
articles that have been vetted by informal peer review or featured
article processes may later have been edited inappropriately, just
before you view them.

  -

      -
        **None of the authors, contributors, sponsors, administrators,
        sysops, or anyone else connected with *OWASP* in any way
        whatsoever can be responsible for the appearance of any
        inaccurate or libelous information or for your use of the
        information contained in or linked from these web pages.**

### No contract; limited license

Please make sure that you understand that the information provided here
is being provided freely, and that no kind of agreement or contract is
created between you and the owners or users of this site, the owners of
the servers upon which it is housed, the individual *OWASP*
contributors, any project administrators, sysops or anyone else who is
in *any way connected* with this project or sister projects subject to
your claims against them directly. You are being granted a limited
license to copy anything from this site; it does not create or imply any
contractual or extracontractual liability on the part of *OWASP* or any
of its agents, members, organizers or other users.

There is **no agreement or understanding between you and *OWASP***
regarding your use or modification of this information beyond the
[Creative Commons
Attribution-ShareAlike 2.5](http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/2.5/);
neither is anyone at *OWASP* responsible should someone change, edit,
modify or remove any information that you may post on *OWASP* or any of
its associated projects.

### Trademarks

Any of the trademarks, service marks, collective marks, design rights,
personality rights or similar rights that are mentioned, used or cited
in the articles of the OWASP are the property of their respective
owners. Their use here does not imply that you may use them for any
other purpose other than for the same or a similar informational use as
contemplated by the original authors of these OWASP articles under the
[Creative Commons
Attribution-ShareAlike 2.5](http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/2.5/)
licensing scheme. Unless otherwise stated OWASP sites are neither
endorsed nor affiliated with any of the holders of any such rights and
as such *OWASP* can not grant any rights to use any otherwise protected
materials. *Your use of any such or similar incorporeal property is at
your own risk.* For use of the OWASP brand, please refer to the [OWASP
brand usage rules](OWASP_brand_usage_rules "wikilink").

### Jurisdiction and legality of content

Publication of information found in *OWASP* may be in violation of the
laws of the country or jurisdiction from where you are viewing this
information. The OWASP database is stored on a server in the State of
Maryland in the United States of America, and is maintained in reference
to the protections afforded under local and federal law. Laws in your
country or jurisdiction may not protect or allow the same kinds of
speech or distribution. *OWASP* does not encourage the violation of any
laws; and cannot be responsible for any violations of such laws, should
you link to this domain or use, reproduce, or republish the information
contained herein.

### Not professional advice

If you need specific advice (for example, medical, legal, financial, or
risk management) please seek a professional who is licensed or
knowledgeable in that area.

Thank you for taking the time to read this page, and please enjoy your
use of *OWASP*.