![468x60-banner-2010.gif](468x60-banner-2010.gif
"468x60-banner-2010.gif")

[Registration](https://guest.cvent.com/EVENTS/Register/IdentityConfirmation.aspx?e=d52c6f5f-d568-4e16-b8e0-b5e2bf87ab3a)
|
[Hotel](https://resweb.passkey.com/Resweb.do?mode=welcome_gi_new&groupID=2766908)
| [Walter E. Washington Convention
Center](http://www.dcconvention.com/)
\== The Panel ==

  - Matthew Fisher, Piscis Security (moderator)
  - Kevin Johnson, SecurIdeas
  - Ken Johnson, FishNet Security
  - Josh Abraham, Rapid7

## The Moderator

**Matthew Fisher** was the first Security Engineer hired by SPI Dynamics
- arguably one of the most successful web application security companies
in the industry - where he had great input into the evolution of
WebInspect. During his 8 year tenure in the web application security
field, Mr. Fisher performed application assessments and consulted to
hundreds of customers in the Federal Government, Department of Defense,
E-Commerce, and Financial industries. He became known for primary
research, and his ability to quickly learn and decipher new technologies
and issues. He left Hewlett-Packard in 2008 (less than a year following
the acquisition of SPI Dynamics) to start Piscis. An expert in
application security assessments, Mr. Fisher is credited with several
original vulnerabilities, exploit and testing techniques to his name,
and is an accomplished writer and speaker.

Piscis now has over 2 years of Government performance, and has
demonstrated leadership within both the public and private sectors.
Their insistent on the use of only "top-shelf" engineers and their
advanced proprietary methodology, along with RealRisk reporting has
earned them a reputation for performing extremely high quality
assessments that go far beyond what the usual "scanner shops" are
capable of performing.

## Panelists

**Kevin Johnson** is a security consultant and founder of Secure Ideas.
Kevin came to security from a development and system administration
background. He has many years of experience performing security services
for fortune 100 companies, and in his spare time he contributes to a
large number of open source security projects. Kevin's involvement in
open-source projects is spread across a number of projects and efforts.
He is the founder of many different projects and has worked on others.
He founded BASE, which is a Web front-end for Snort analysis. He also
founded and continues to lead the SamuraiWTF live DVD. This is a live
environment focused on Web penetration testing. He also founded Yokoso
and Laudanum, which are focused on exploit delivery. Kevin is a
certified instructor for SANS and the author of Security 542: Web
Application Penetration Testing and Ethical Hacking. He also presents at
industry events, including DEFCON and ShmooCon, and for various
organizations, like Infragard, ISACA, ISSA, and the University of
Florida.

**Ken Johnson** is a Senior Application Security Consultant with FishNet
Security performing dynamic analysis, source code analysis and web
application penetration testing. Ken has worked for both government and
corporate organizations both at home and abroad.

**Joshua “Jabra” Abraham** joined Rapid7 in 2006 as a Security
Consultant. Josh has extensive IT Security and Auditing experience and
worked as an enterprise risk assessment analyst for Hasbro Corporation.
Josh specializes in penetration testing, web application security
assessments, wireless security assessments, and custom code development.
He has spoken at BlackHat, DefCon, ShmooCon, The SANS Pentest Summit,
Infosec World, CSI, OWASP Conferences, LinuxWorld, Comdex and BLUG. In
his spare time, he contributes code to open source security projects
such as the BackTrack LiveCD, BeEF, Nikto, Fierce, and PBNJ. He is
frequently quoted in the media regarding Microsoft Patch Tuesday and web
application security by ComputerWorld, DarkReading and SC Magazine.

[Category:AppSec_DC_2010_Presentations](Category:AppSec_DC_2010_Presentations "wikilink")
[Category:OWASP_Conference_Presentations](Category:OWASP_Conference_Presentations "wikilink")