![468x60-banner-2010.gif](468x60-banner-2010.gif
"468x60-banner-2010.gif")

[Registration](https://guest.cvent.com/EVENTS/Register/IdentityConfirmation.aspx?e=d52c6f5f-d568-4e16-b8e0-b5e2bf87ab3a)
|
[Hotel](https://resweb.passkey.com/Resweb.do?mode=welcome_gi_new&groupID=2766908)
| [Walter E. Washington Convention
Center](http://www.dcconvention.com/)
\== The presentation ==

![Owasp_logo_normal.jpg](Owasp_logo_normal.jpg
"Owasp_logo_normal.jpg")By taking advantage of the new Dynamic Language
Runtime (DLR) from Microsoft, many challenges in pen testing .NET based
applications are greatly simplified. The combination of dynamic and
static languages drives toward a best of breed approach in testing .NET
applications.

This talk will focus on practical methods of testing WCF services,
Silverlight, and connected WPF Desktop applications using Python or Ruby
via the Microsoft Iron\* language ports. Specific topics covered will
include increasing code visibility, simplified service proxy calls and
overriding application behavior dynamically.

Additionally, since the DLR has nearly full support for running python
and ruby applications, many familiar pen testing tools can be brought
into an engagement to further enhance the testing of .NET applications.

## Andrew Wilson

Andrew Wilson is a Security Consultant at Trustwave. He is a member of
Trustwave's SpiderLabs - the advanced security team focused on
penetration testing, incident response, and application security. He has
over 9 years experience building and securing software for a variety of
companies. Andrew specializes in application security assessment,
penetration testing, threat modeling and secure development life cycle.
Andrew is active in the developer and security community as a speaker, a
trainer, and as a leader of the Phoenix OWASP & Azure user groups.
Andrew is recognized as a Microsoft MVP in Windows Azure.

[Category:AppSec_DC_2010_Presentations](Category:AppSec_DC_2010_Presentations "wikilink")
[Category:OWASP_Conference_Presentations](Category:OWASP_Conference_Presentations "wikilink")