**[OWASP Podcast Series](OWASP_Podcast "wikilink") \#2**

OWASP NEWS PART 2 February 2009
Recorded First Week in February 2009

[<http://images.apple.com/itunes/overview/images/overview-icon-itunes20081106.jpg>](http://itunes.apple.com/WebObjects/MZStore.woa/wa/viewPodcast?id=300769012)
[<https://www.owasp.org/images/d/d3/Feed-icon-32x32.png>](http://www.owasp.org/download/jmanico/podcast.xml)
[mp3](http://www.owasp.org/download/jmanico/owasp_podcast_9.mp3)

## OWASP AppSec News

<http://www.suspekt.org/2009/02/06/some-facts-about-the-phplist-vulnerability-and-the-phpbbcom-hack/>
<http://hackedphpbb.blogspot.com/2009/01/place-holder.html>
<http://www.owasp.org/index.php/Category:OWASP_Scrubbr>
<http://www.owasp.org/index.php/Category:OWASP_ModSecurity_Core_Rule_Set_Project>
<http://michael-coates.blogspot.com/2009/02/xss-prevention.html>
<http://nickcoblentz.blogspot.com/2009/01/owasps-xss-prevention-cheat-sheet.html>
While many of you may be familiar with the ha.ckers.org RSnake XSS Cheat
Sheet, Michael Coates and Nick Coblentz talk about the advantages of the
OWASP XSS Prevention Cheat Sheet. Michael says it's "cool" because it
addresses: Injecting Up vs Injecting Down, Attribute Escaping,
Javascripting Escaping, CSS Escaping, and URL Escaping
<http://blogs.msdn.com/sdl/archive/2009/01/27/sdl-and-the-cwe-sans-top-25.aspx>
<http://www.securitycatalyst.com/is-this-helpful/>
Bryan Sullivan and Michael Howard put together some information about
the Top 25 Most Dangerious programming errors on the SDL blog, including
a mapping of the Microsoft SDL to each Common Weakness, or CWE, and how
to best address each weakness through education, threat-modeling, a
specific Microsoft tool, and/or manual review
<http://denimgroup.typepad.com/denim_group/2009/01/owasp-san-antonio-slide-deck-online.html>
Dan Cornell of the Denim Group recently spoke at the San Antonio OWASP
on "Vulnerability Management in an Application Security World". In this
presentation, Dan's agenda focuses in on what to do after you've found
vulnerabilities in an application, as well as the different perspectives
from a classic IT security group versus the one-track, bug-track mind of
developers.
<http://keepitlocked.net/archive/2009/01/27/socalcodecamp-presentation-quot-top-ten-tips-for-tenacious-defense-for-asp-net-application-quot.aspx>
Another presentation came across the blog world from Alex Smolen @
Foundstone. He spoke at SoCal Code Camp on the "Top Ten Tips for
Tenacious Defense in ASP.NET". I know that a lot of people ask, "What
are the specific protections that OWASP recommends, and which are out of
beta or stable enough to use?" Alex seems to have a prescription.
<http://www.cgisecurity.com/2009/01/web-application-scanners-comparison.html>
<http://www.darkreading.com/security/app-security/showArticle.jhtml?articleID=213000085>
cgisecurity.com brings us a news piece on a recent web application
security scanner comparison. Someone named "anantasec" posted a 26-page
evaluation of three commercial WASS tools. He tested 13 web
applications, 3 demo applications provided by the vendors, and some
tests to verify Javascript execution capabilities.
<http://shreeraj.blogspot.com/2009/01/infosecworld-08-presenting-research.html>
Shreeraj Shah posted on his blog about an upcoming event that may be
worth checking out. He is speaking at Infosecworld on "Defending Against
the Worst Web-Based Application Vulnerabilities in 2009", which is being
held in Florida on Wednesday, March 11th. His "next generation" attack
research includes topics such as SQL over JSON, XSS with RSS feeds, and
XPATH over SOAP
<http://www.cigital.com/justiceleague/2009/01/22/let-the-posturing-begin/>
jOHN Steven of Cigital posts on the Justice League blog about hybrid
analysis tools. jOHN approaches hybrid analysis from the stance that A)
there are strengths to each tool and each type of analysis, and B) While
unpopular today, it is valuable to drive dynamic testing efforts from
static analysis results
<http://jobsearchtech.about.com/od/educationfortechcareers/g/CSSLP.htm>
More information has become available about the CSSLP, or The Certified
Secure Software Lifecycle Professional certification from (ISC)2. While
highly talked about during and after the OWASP AppSec USA 08 conference,
the CSSLP is set to debut in June, 2009, when the first exams will
become available. The certification appears to focus on 7 key areas or
"domains": Secure Software Concepts, Requirements, Design,
Implementation, Testing, Acceptance, and Deployment.
<http://ounceopen.squarespace.com>
The OWASP legend, Dinis Cruz and OunceLabs Advanced Research Team have a
website for O2, or OunceOpen. O2 was developed by Security Professionals
FOR security professionals, and is designed to automate the security
consultant's brain\!
<http://research.zscaler.com>
Mike Sutton, Jeff Forristal, and Brenda Larcom of the ZScaler Research
team have posted a record 48 innovative posts since September on topics
such as web application security and cloud computing. This is probably
the top blog to watch in 2009 by our guesses\!