Welcome to the Portland, Oregon OWASP Chapter.

![<File:Portland_and_Mt_Hood.jpg>](Portland_and_Mt_Hood.jpg
"File:Portland_and_Mt_Hood.jpg")

# Events

Past and future event information can be found in
[Calagator](http://calagator.org/events/search?query=OWASP) or on our
[meetup group page](https://www.meetup.com/OWASP-Portland-Chapter/).

The Portland OWASP chapter aims to hold a chapter meeting once every
month. There is also an OWASP training day held each year, featuring
workshops ranging in multiple information security practices.

Feel free to join us on
[Meetup](https://www.meetup.com/OWASP-Portland-Chapter/),
[LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/groups/4223013/), and follow us on
[Twitter](https://twitter.com/PortlandOWASP) for upcoming events\!

# For Participants

OWASP Foundation ([Overview
Slides](https://docs.google.com/a/owasp.org/presentation/d/1ZgY25F0F7QgScMlB1X7LAa70LtyJql8XqcYdR4suPUo/edit#slide=id.p))
is a professional association of[global members](Membership "wikilink")
and is and open to anyone interested in learning more about software
security. Local chapters are run independently by volunteers and guided
by the [Handbook](Chapter_Leader_Handbook "wikilink").

If you are interested in attending chapter meetings or otherwise getting
involved, we <i>strongly</i> encourage you to join the [local chapter
email
list](https://groups.google.com/a/owasp.org/forum/#!forum/portland-chapter/join).
This list is low-volume, but acts as a great resource for local security
information and announcements about chapter meetings.

### Ways You Can Get Involved

#### Speakers / Venues

For our monthly meetings it would be wonderful if you would help us
think of topics, volunteer to speak or help find a good person for a
topic, or help us secure a venue capable of hosting \~75 members and
guests.

#### Training Day

We need volunteers for Training Day every year to take tickets, direct
people to classes, assist trainers, etc. Many people volunteer for a
half a day and take a class the other half. We'd love to have your help.

#### Mentorship

Interested in being a mentor or being mentored ? Please reach out to
David Quisenberry, our membership coordinator, to get involved. Focus of
mentoring can be Public Speaking, AppSec Skills, Career Development and
we will work to align interests of mentors and those being mentored.

#### Chapter Leadership

Chapter leaders take the initiative to make sure monthly meetings,
Training Day, and mentorships run smoothly (or at least run). If you are
looking for a more significant way to get involved over the course of a
year this is a great opportunity.

# For Speakers

We would be thrilled if you would like to come give a talk at one of our
chapter meetings. Anything security-related is a good candidate for a
talk and will likely draw an interested audience. Suggestions for
possible topics for future meetings:

  - Integrating security into an SDLC
  - HTML5 security
  - Social engineering
  - Application Security Tools Review & Comparisons
  - Discussion starters for controversial security topics
  - Your experiences trying to implement a security solution
  - Security basics talks; introductions to secure coding practices

Our OWASP meetings typically draw between 40 - 75 attendees. Chapter
meetings are a great place to do a dry run of talks you intend to give
at conferences or just to connect with locals. Before you present,
please be sure you carefully review the [speaker
agreement](Speaker_Agreement "wikilink").

# OWASP Annual Training Day

[2019 Training Day](OWASP_Portland_2019_Training_Day "wikilink")

[2018 Training Day](OWASP_Portland_2018_Training_Day "wikilink")

[2017 Training Day](OWASP_Portland_2017_Training_Day "wikilink")

[2016 Training Day](OWASP_Portland_2016_Training_Day "wikilink")

# Presentations

<big>**2019**</big>

**January**

Docker Exploits with Josh Farwell

[Slides](https://github.com/sparklespdx/conference-talks/blob/master/OWASP_PDX_2019-01-09/slides.pdf)

**February**

Building a Security Program with Kendra Ash

[Slides](https://github.com/kendraash/talks/blob/master/SecurityProgramTalk%20-%20Kendra%20Ash.pdf)

**March**

Breaching the Cyber-Security Job Industry with Ryan Krause

[Slides](https://github.com/ryankrause/talks/blob/master/Breaching%20the%20Cyber%20Security%20Job%20Industry.pdf)

**April**

OWASP Top Ten For JavaScript Developers with Lewis Ardern

# Mentorship Resources

Coming Soon\!

# Contact

Your current Portland Chapter Board:

  - Ian Melven - 2019 Chapter Leader (ian.melven@owasp.org)
  - Bhushan Gupta - 2019 Vice Leader (bhushan.gupta@owasp.org)
  - Benny Zhao - 2019 Treasurer (benny.zhao@owasp.org)
  - David Quisenberry - Community Outreach (david.quisenberry@owasp.org)

A huge THANK YOU to the other members of the chapter leadership team and
our volunteers, past and present \!

  - Philip Jenkins
  - Brian Ventura
  - Sonny Nallamilli - 2018 Treasurer
  - James Bohem
  - Adam Russell (adam.russell@owasp.org)
  - Matthew Lapworth
  - Katie Feucht
  - Timothy D. Morgan - Founder (tim.morgan@owasp.org)
  - AJ Dexter - Founder (aj.dexter@gmail.com - now retired)

__NOTOC__

<headertabs />

# Chapter Supporters

Besides being funded through individual contributions and chapter
memberships, our chapter is also supported through corporate sponsors.
We would like to thank our sponsors for making many excellent activities
possible:

## 2019

### Champion Supporters

![simple-logo.png](simple-logo.png "simple-logo.png")             
![Newrelic-logo.png](Newrelic-logo.png "Newrelic-logo.png")

![Vacasa_Logo_.png](Vacasa_Logo_.png "Vacasa_Logo_.png")

[Past Chapter Supporters](OWASP_Portland_Sponsorship_Archive "wikilink")

<i><big>Want to become a chapter supporter? See the [OWASP Portland
Sponsorship Policy](OWASP_Portland_Sponsorship_Policy "wikilink") for
more information.</big></i>

## Donate

OWASP is non-profit, volunteer-managed organization. All chapters are
organized by volunteers. By donating to your local chapter or becoming
an OWASP member, you help support a variety of activities and events
including chapter meetings, competitions, and training. As a
[501(c)(3)](About_OWASP "wikilink") non-profit professional association
your support and sponsorship of any meeting venue and/or refreshments is
tax-deductible. Financial contributions should only be made online using
the authorized online chapter donation button.

![Btn_donate_SM.gif](Btn_donate_SM.gif "Btn_donate_SM.gif") to this
chapter or become a local chapter supporter.

Or consider the value of [Individual, Corporate, or Academic Supporter
membership](Membership "wikilink"). Ready to become a member?
![Join_Now_BlueIcon.JPG](Join_Now_BlueIcon.JPG
"Join_Now_BlueIcon.JPG")

[Category:Oregon](Category:Oregon "wikilink") [Category:OWASP
Chapter](Category:OWASP_Chapter "wikilink")