# Welcome to the Positive Security Project

A common approach on most companies is adequate the protection of their
assets as part of a post mortem lessons learned process. A web site
changes, data compromised and unavailability as a result of a DoS attack
are common examples on a start point to accept the existence of security
flaws and initiate the security enhancement to avoid future occurrences.
Even in these cases the adequate security is not always performed as a
consequence of the enhancement process and the most common result is to
allocate efforts on the problem’s source and simply forget about the
rest.

The Positive Security Project was initiated on the OWASP Summer of Code
2008 as a long term initiative to support a continuous learning process
for the market on adopt a “positive security attitude” as part of their
common IT management practices through a marketing campaign to encourage
a positive approach.

The broader vision for this project is to work for change in the
software market. To increase application security, we need to make it
possible for people to make informed decisions about the software they
buy. Then the market can work to encourage security. To enable informed
decisions, we need real information about the people, process, and
technology used to create an application. And that means we need
positive disclosure. The negative approach to security leads to the
penetrate-and-patch hamster wheel of pain security management process.
The time has come to be positive and proactive.

# Get Involved on Positive Security

**What is Positive Security?**

Positive security focuses on verifying that security controls are
present, properly implemented, and used in all the right places. It
involves white lists and only allowing what's specifically allowed. And
it involves disclosing what a company does to ensure the security of the
software it produces (positive disclosure). Disclosing vulnerabilities
(negative disclosure/full disclosure) has a role in the market, but the
metrics produced are meaningless.

**How to Adopt a Positive Security Approach? (For Suppliers)**

  - An Overview of the Positive Security Approach - The Supplier Side

**How to Adopt a Positive Security Approach? (For Customers)**

  - An Overview of the Positive Security Approach - The Customer Side
  - How to sell the Positive Security Approach within your company
  - How to explain the Positive Security Approach amongst your IT
    colleagues
  - How to explain the Positive Security Approach for your internal
    customers

**Public Resources on Positive Security (Companies Related)**

  - [Microsoft Security Development Lifecycle
    (SDL)](http://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/security/cc448177.aspx)
    (English)

**Public Resources on Positive Security (Government Related)**

  - [The Tokeneer
    Project](http://www.adacore.com/home/gnatpro/tokeneer/): In order to
    demonstrate that developing highly secure systems to the level of
    rigor required by the higher assurance levels of the Common Criteria
    is possible, the NSA (National Security Agency) asked Praxis High
    Integrity Systems to undertake a research project to develop part of
    an existing secure system (the Tokeneer System) in accordance with
    Praxis’ Correctness by Construction development process. This
    development and research work has now been made available by the NSA
    to the software development and security communities in an effort to
    prove that it is possible to develop secure systems rigorously in a
    cost effective manner.

**Public Resources on Positive Security (Community Related)**

  - [Título del enlace](http://www.ejemplo.com)

The Positive Security Index

# Updates

'''28 October 2008 '''

  - Page layout changed to include more resources

**23 September 2008**

  - The Top 50 Software Companies list was updated with relative
    information and links to companies' resources on Positive Security.

# Get Involved

Everyone has something to contribute. Sharing public available
information on how companies are dealing with the Positive Security
Attitude is well appreciated and also the vice-versa, where companies
simply don’t care about their security controls until a problem occurs
and a considerable impact. If you want to contribute to the project as
an author, reviewer or in any other fashion, please send a message to
owasp (at) camargoneves.com explaining what you can do and how much
effort you can allocate to this non-profit volunteer process.

# Top 50 Software Companies

The Top 50 Software Companies were defined following The Big
International Software Index, published at [Software Top 100 web
site](http://www.softwaretop100.org/) and these companies are being
studied to understand what kind of approach they maintain to deal with
IT Security and if the material can be useful as reference for the
Positive Security Project. This list was also defined as the reference
for the [OWASP Corporate Application Security Rating
Guide](https://www.owasp.org/index.php/OWASP_Corporate_Application_Security_Rating_Guide).

For each company listed, the following information are stated on this
page:

  - **Summary:** A brief description of the company, normally copied
    from Wikipedia or their own website.

<!-- end list -->

  - **Related Websites:** Links to these companies’ websites where
    information on Positive Security Approach is published and available
    for public use.

<!-- end list -->

  - **Related Resources:** Documents, methodologies, presentations and
    all other resources directly related to the Positive Security
    approach which are available for the community.

*Note: All links and supportive information was directly collected from
the software companies' web sites without any change or adjustment.
Please read it understanding that some marketing approach may be in use
and apply your own critical view. :-)*

## 01\. Microsoft

**Summary**

Microsoft Corporation is an American multinational computer technology
corporation, which rose to dominate the home computer operating system
market with MS-DOS in the mid-1980s, followed by the Windows line of
operating systems. It develops, manufactures, licenses, and supports a
wide range of software products for computing devices. Microsoft CTO and
Senior Vice President Craig Mundie authored a whitepaper in 2002,
defining the framework of the company’s Trustworthy Computing program.
Four areas were identified as the initiative’s key “pillars”. Microsoft
has subsequently organized its efforts to align with these goals. These
key activities are set forth as: Security, Privacy, Reliability and
Business Integrity. [(Ref.1)](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Microsoft)
[(Ref.2)](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Trustworthy_Computing)

**Related Websites**

  - [Microsoft Security Main
    Page](http://www.microsoft.com/security/default.mspx): Provides
    links and general information about several information security
    related initiatives and strategies at Microsoft.

<!-- end list -->

  - [Microsoft Security Development Lifecycle
    (SDL)](http://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/security/cc448177.aspx): Main
    website for Microsoft's SDL, a company-wide initiative and a
    mandatory policy since 2004. Combining a holistic and practical
    approach, SDL introduces security and privacy early and throughout
    the development process.

**Related Resources**

  - [The Microsoft Security Development Lifecycle (SDL): Process
    Guidance](http://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/security/cc420639.aspx)

## 02\. IBM

**Summary**

Here is the text.

**Public Resources**

  - [Resource](http://www.wikimedia.org): Resource Description.

**Related Websites**

  - [Website](http://www.wikimedia.org)

(03) Oracle

**Summary**

Here is the text.

**Public Resources**

  - [Resource](http://www.wikimedia.org): Resource Description.

**Related Websites**

  - [Website](http://www.wikimedia.org)

(04) SAP

**Summary**

Here is the text.

**Public Resources**

  - [Resource](http://www.wikimedia.org): Resource Description.

**Related Websites**

  - [Website](http://www.wikimedia.org)

(05) HP

**Summary**

Here is the text.

**Public Resources**

  - [Resource](http://www.wikimedia.org): Resource Description.

**Related Websites**

  - [Website](http://www.wikimedia.org)

(06) Symantec

**Summary**

Here is the text.

**Public Resources**

  - [Resource](http://www.wikimedia.org): Resource Description.

**Related Websites**

  - [Website](http://www.wikimedia.org)

(07) Computer Associates

**Summary**

Here is the text.

**Public Resources**

  - [Resource](http://www.wikimedia.org): Resource Description.

**Related Websites**

  - [Website](http://www.wikimedia.org)

(08) Electronic Arts

**Summary**

Here is the text.

**Public Resources**

  - [Resource](http://www.wikimedia.org): Resource Description.

**Related Websites**

  - [Website](http://www.wikimedia.org)

(09) Adobe

**Summary**

Here is the text.

**Public Resources**

  - [Resource](http://www.wikimedia.org): Resource Description.

**Related Websites**

  - [Website](http://www.wikimedia.org)

(10) Nintendo

**Summary**

Here is the text.

**Public Resources**

  - [Resource](http://www.wikimedia.org): Resource Description.

**Related Websites**

  - [Website](http://www.wikimedia.org)

(11) EMC

**Summary**

Here is the text.

**Public Resources**

  - [Resource](http://www.wikimedia.org): Resource Description.

**Related Websites**

  - [Website](http://www.wikimedia.org)

(12) Autodesk

**Summary**

Here is the text.

**Public Resources**

  - [Resource](http://www.wikimedia.org): Resource Description.

**Related Websites**

  - [Website](http://www.wikimedia.org)

(13) NCR

**Summary**

Here is the text.

**Public Resources**

  - [Resource](http://www.wikimedia.org): Resource Description.

**Related Websites**

  - [Website](http://www.wikimedia.org)

(14) Activision

**Summary**

Here is the text.

**Public Resources**

  - [Resource](http://www.wikimedia.org): Resource Description.

**Related Websites**

  - [Website](http://www.wikimedia.org)

(15) Cisco

**Summary**

Here is the text.

**Public Resources**

  - [Resource](http://www.wikimedia.org): Resource Description.

**Related Websites**

  - [Website](http://www.wikimedia.org)

(16) SunGard

**Summary**

Here is the text.

**Public Resources**

  - [Resource](http://www.wikimedia.org): Resource Description.

**Related Websites**

  - [Website](http://www.wikimedia.org)

(17) BMC

**Summary**

Here is the text.

**Public Resources**

  - [Resource](http://www.wikimedia.org): Resource Description.

**Related Websites**

  - [Website](http://www.wikimedia.org)

(18) Intuit

**Summary**

Here is the text.

**Public Resources**

  - [Resource](http://www.wikimedia.org): Resource Description.

**Related Websites**

  - [Website](http://www.wikimedia.org)

(19) Cadence

**Summary**

Here is the text.

**Public Resources**

  - [Resource](http://www.wikimedia.org): Resource Description.

**Related Websites**

  - [Website](http://www.wikimedia.org)

(20) Dassault

**Summary**

Here is the text.

**Public Resources**

  - [Resource](http://www.wikimedia.org): Resource Description.

**Related Websites**

  - [Website](http://www.wikimedia.org)

(21) THQ

**Summary**

Here is the text.

**Public Resources**

  - [Resource](http://www.wikimedia.org): Resource Description.

**Related Websites**

  - [Website](http://www.wikimedia.org)

(22) Synopsys

**Summary**

Here is the text.

**Public Resources**

  - [Resource](http://www.wikimedia.org): Resource Description.

**Related Websites**

  - [Website](http://www.wikimedia.org)

(23) Vivendi Universal Games

**Summary**

Here is the text.

**Public Resources**

  - [Resource](http://www.wikimedia.org): Resource Description.

**Related Websites**

  - [Website](http://www.wikimedia.org)

(24) Take 2 Interactive

**Summary**

Here is the text.

**Public Resources**

  - [Resource](http://www.wikimedia.org): Resource Description.

**Related Websites**

  - [Website](http://www.wikimedia.org)

(25) SAS Institute

**Summary**

Here is the text.

**Public Resources**

  - [Resource](http://www.wikimedia.org): Resource Description.

**Related Websites**

  - [Website](http://www.wikimedia.org)

(26) Citrix

**Summary**

Here is the text.

**Public Resources**

  - [Resource](http://www.wikimedia.org): Resource Description.

**Related Websites**

  - [Website](http://www.wikimedia.org)

(27) BEA

**Summary**

Here is the text.

**Public Resources**

  - [Resource](http://www.wikimedia.org): Resource Description.

**Related Websites**

  - [Website](http://www.wikimedia.org)

(28) UGS

**Summary**

Here is the text.

**Public Resources**

  - [Resource](http://www.wikimedia.org): Resource Description.

**Related Websites**

  - [Website](http://www.wikimedia.org)

(29)Cognos

**Summary**

Here is the text.

**Public Resources**

  - [Resource](http://www.wikimedia.org): Resource Description.

**Related Websites**

  - [Website](http://www.wikimedia.org)

(30 Reynolds & Reynolds

**Summary**

Here is the text.

**Public Resources**

  - [Resource](http://www.wikimedia.org): Resource Description.

**Related Websites**

  - [Website](http://www.wikimedia.org)

(31) Compuware

**Summary**

Here is the text.

**Public Resources**

  - [Resource](http://www.wikimedia.org): Resource Description.

**Related Websites**

  - [Website](http://www.wikimedia.org)

(32) Trend Micro

**Summary**

Here is the text.

**Public Resources**

  - [Resource](http://www.wikimedia.org): Resource Description.

**Related Websites**

  - [Website](http://www.wikimedia.org)

(33) Qualcomm

**Summary**

Here is the text.

**Public Resources**

  - [Resource](http://www.wikimedia.org): Resource Description.

**Related Websites**

  - [Website](http://www.wikimedia.org)

(34) Apple

**Summary**

Here is the text.

**Public Resources**

  - [Resource](http://www.wikimedia.org): Resource Description.

**Related Websites**

  - [Website](http://www.wikimedia.org)

(35) Novell

**Summary**

Here is the text.

**Public Resources**

  - [Resource](http://www.wikimedia.org): Resource Description.

**Related Websites**

  - [Website](http://www.wikimedia.org)

(36) Sage

**Summary**

Here is the text.

**Public Resources**

  - [Resource](http://www.wikimedia.org): Resource Description.

**Related Websites**

  - [Website](http://www.wikimedia.org)

(37) Misys

**Summary**

Here is the text.

**Public Resources**

  - [Resource](http://www.wikimedia.org): Resource Description.

**Related Websites**

  - [Website](http://www.wikimedia.org)

(38) Infor

**Summary**

Here is the text.

**Public Resources**

  - [Resource](http://www.wikimedia.org): Resource Description.

**Related Websites**

  - [Website](http://www.wikimedia.org)

(39) McAfee

**Summary**

Here is the text.

**Public Resources**

  - [Resource](http://www.wikimedia.org): Resource Description.

**Related Websites**

  - [Website](http://www.wikimedia.org)

(40) Business Objects

**Summary**

Here is the text.

**Public Resources**

  - [Resource](http://www.wikimedia.org): Resource Description.

**Related Websites**

  - [Website](http://www.wikimedia.org)

(41) Hyperion Solutions

**Summary**

Here is the text.

**Public Resources**

  - [Resource](http://www.wikimedia.org): Resource Description.

**Related Websites**

  - [Website](http://www.wikimedia.org)

(42) Parametric Technology

**Summary**

Here is the text.

**Public Resources**

  - [Resource](http://www.wikimedia.org): Resource Description.

**Related Websites**

  - [Website](http://www.wikimedia.org)

(43) Sybase

**Summary**

Here is the text.

**Public Resources**

  - [Resource](http://www.wikimedia.org): Resource Description.

**Related Websites**

  - [Website](http://www.wikimedia.org)

(44) Fair Isaac

**Summary**

Here is the text.

**Public Resources**

  - [Resource](http://www.wikimedia.org): Resource Description.

**Related Websites**

  - [Website](http://www.wikimedia.org)

(45) Checkpoint

**Summary**

Here is the text.

**Public Resources**

  - [Resource](http://www.wikimedia.org): Resource Description.

**Related Websites**

  - [Website](http://www.wikimedia.org)

(46) Mentor Graphics

**Summary**

Here is the text.

**Public Resources**

  - [Resource](http://www.wikimedia.org): Resource Description.

**Related Websites**

  - [Website](http://www.wikimedia.org)

(47) Software AG

**Summary**

Here is the text.

**Public Resources**

  - [Resource](http://www.wikimedia.org): Resource Description.

**Related Websites**

  - [Website](http://www.wikimedia.org)

(48) Intergraph

**Summary**

Here is the text.

**Public Resources**

  - [Resource](http://www.wikimedia.org): Resource Description.

**Related Websites**

  - [Website](http://www.wikimedia.org)

(49) Philips

**Summary**

Here is the text.

**Public Resources**

  - [Resource](http://www.wikimedia.org): Resource Description.

**Related Websites**

  - [Website](http://www.wikimedia.org)

(50) Eclipsys

**Summary**

Here is the text.

**Public Resources**

  - [Resource](http://www.wikimedia.org): Resource Description.

**Related Websites**

  - [Website](http://www.wikimedia.org)