__NOTOC__

# About OWASP

<table>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>The Open Web Application Security Project (OWASP) is a worldwide free and open community focused on improving the security of application software. There are over 200 OWASP Local Chapters world-wide that are free and open to anyone to attend. OWASP tools and documents can be used to detect and to guard against security-related design and implementation flaws, as well as to add security-related activities into your Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC).</p>
<p>For additional detail about OWASP, leadership, and corporate details, please refer to the <a href="http://www.owasp.org/index.php/About_The_Open_Web_Application_Security_Project">About OWASP</a> page.</p></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

## Featured projects include:

  - **[OWASP Top Ten Project](OWASP_Top_Ten_Project "wikilink")** - The
    OWASP Top Ten provides a powerful awareness document for web
    application security. The OWASP Top Ten represents a broad consensus
    about what the most critical web application security flaws are.

<!-- end list -->

  - **[OWASP Code Review
    Project](OWASP_Code_Review_Project "wikilink")**

<!-- end list -->

  - **[OWASP Zed Attack Proxy
    Project](OWASP_Zed_Attack_Proxy_Project "wikilink")**

<!-- end list -->

  - **[OWASP OWTF](OWASP_OWTF "wikilink")**

<!-- end list -->

  - **[OWASP Web Testing Environment
    Project](OWASP_Web_Testing_Environment_Project "wikilink")**

<!-- end list -->

  - **[OWASP CSRFGuard
    Project](https://www.owasp.org/index.php/Category:OWASP_CSRFGuard_Project)**

# 2014 Press Releases

## September

  - September 4: [OWASP September 4
    Connector](http://owasp.blogspot.com/2014/09/owasp-global-connector.html)

<!-- end list -->

  - September 2: [5 Reasons to Attend AppSec
    USA 2014](http://owasp.blogspot.com/2014/09/5-reasons-to-attendappsec-usa-2014-you.html)

## August

  - August 19: [OWASP August 19
    Connector](http://owasp.blogspot.com/2014/08/owasp-august-19-connector.html)

<!-- end list -->

  - August 18: [OWASP ASVS 2.0 (Application Security Verification
    Standard)](http://owasp.blogspot.com/2014/08/owasp-asvs-20-application-security.html)

<!-- end list -->

  - August 15: [OWASP AppSec USA 2014 Adds Leading Global Experts to
    List of
    Speakers](http://owasp.blogspot.com/2014/08/owasp-appsec-usa-2014-adds-leading.html?spref=tw)

<!-- end list -->

  - August 13: [Call for Speakers: OWASP Ghana Cybersecurity
    Conference](http://owasp.blogspot.com/2014/08/call-for-speakers-owasp-ghana.html)

<!-- end list -->

  - August 13: [THIS Friday is the DEADLINE to SUMBIT your Candidacy for
    the 2014 OWASP BOARD of
    DIRECTORS](http://owasp.blogspot.com/2014/08/this-friday-is-deadline-to-submit-your.html)

## July

  - July 31: [Videos from AppSec
    Europe 2014](http://owasp.blogspot.com/2014/07/at-last-appsec-europe-owasp-media.html)

-----

The full list of press releases can be found on the OWASP blog:
<http://owasp.blogspot.com>

# OWASP Social Media

For coverage of what is currently going on within OWASP:

-----

{{\#widget:Twitter|user=owasp|id=507368665927262208}}

Like Us on
[Facebook](http://www.facebook.com/pages/OWASP/104106462960656)

Visit the OWASP [Blog](http://owasp.blogspot.com)

Connect With Us on
[LinkedIn](http://www.linkedin.com/groups/Global-OWASP-Foundation-36874)

Find Us on
[Google+](https://plus.google.com/u/0/communities/105181517914716500346)

Check OWASP Out on [YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/user/OWASPGLOBAL)

## Submitting News

Have some OWASP related news you want tweeted? Add it to our [social
media
spreadsheet](https://docs.google.com/a/owasp.org/spreadsheets/d/1DiFOWc-2Xbmu6rbSBP9uVTBU2gRzCP2TN24YajGkRCQ/edit#gid=0).
The spreadsheet has been set up for project leaders, chapter leaders and
OWASP members to post exciting news about what they are doing in OWASP
through the official OWASP Twitter feed. Posts are subject to the OWASP
Twitter guidelines.

# Press Inquiries

For any inquiries about OWASP, OWASP Projects, or for interviews and/or
backgrounds, please utilize our [CONTACT
FORM](https://owasporg.atlassian.net/servicedesk/customer/portal/7/group/18/create/72)
so we can track and route your request.

# Upcoming OWASP Events

## September

### [AppSec USA 2014: September 16-19](http://2014.appsecusa.org/2014/)

AppSec USA is a world-class software security conference for developers,
auditors, risk managers, technologists, and entrepreneurs gathering with
the world’s top practitioners to share the latest research and
practices, in the high energy atmosphere of Downtown Denver.

**Why should you attend?** Insightful keynote addresses delivered by
leading industry visionaries from thought leaders of critical
infrastructure. Over 50 sessions across 5 tracks (developer, tester,
operations, workshops, and legal) with world-renowned subject matter
experts An all-new Legal Track to address industry regulations, privacy
laws, liability, and more A hands-all Workshop Track providing
instruction on essential security tools and skills Thousands of
attendees exclusively focused on Software Security Extensive Capture the
Flag competition developed exclusively for AppSec USA 2014 Home-brewed
beer competition open to all attendees Convenience of Downtown Denver.

## October

### [2014 Boston Application Security Conference (BASC): October 18](https://www.owasp.org/index.php/2014_BASC_Homepage)

This free conference will take place on Saturday, October 18th at the
Microsoft Cambridge Sales Office, One Cambridge Center, Cambridge, MA
02142. **Note the new location, down the street from previous years'
conferences.**

The BASC will be a free, one day, informal conference, aimed at
increasing awareness and knowledge of application security in the
greater Boston area. While many of the presentations will cover
state-of-the-art application security concepts, the BASC is intended to
appeal to a wide-array of attendees. Application security professionals,
professional software developers, software quality engineers, computer
science students, and security software vendors should be able to come
to the BASC, learn, and hopefully enjoy themselves at the same time.

### [Lonestar Application Security Conference (LASCON): October 21-24](http://lascon.org)

The Lonestar Application Security Conference (LASCON) is an OWASP
conference held annually in Austin, TX. It started in 2010 when James
Wickett (@wickett) and Josh Sokol (@joshsokol) along with the OWASP
Austin crew put together an amazing 1-day conference with a speaker
lineup of some of the who’s-who of the infosec and appsec world.

LASCON 2014, run by David Hughes(@Dav1dHugh3s) and the OWASP Austin
crew, will be run in the same tradition as previous LASCON conferences
featuring the best speakers, a close-knit community atmosphere and even
our signature happy hour replete with a mechanical bull. Year over year,
LASCON has been a gathering of thought leaders, web developers, security
engineers, mobile developers and information security professionals.
LASCON 2014 will have 2 days of pre-conference training and 2 full days
of conference across 4 rooms.

## December

### [Ghana CyberSecurity 2014: December 10-11](https://www.owasp.org/index.php/Ghana)

Ghana CyberSecurity aims to be the premier and marquee Information
Security and Assurance event for technologists, auditors, risk managers,
and entrepreneurs, gathering the world’s top practitioner, to share the
latest research, case studies and practices, in the high energy
atmosphere of the British Council, Accra.

**Why you should attend**:
<https://www.owasp.org/images/4/45/Still_need_to_know_why_you_should_attend.pdf>

-----

For more information on OWASP events, please see [The OWASP Conference
page](http://www.owasp.org/index.php/Category:OWASP_AppSec_Conference)

# The OWASP Brand

OWASP's philosophy is that achieving security involves all parts of an
organization, including people, process, and technology. We support the
use of our brand consistent with this philosophy. However, we cannot
allow the use of our brand when it implies something inconsistent with
OWASP's comprehensive and balanced approach to application security.
Therefore, we have defined these brand usage rules to clarify
appropriate and inappropriate uses of the OWASP brand, including our
name, domain, logos, project names, and other trademarks. The Brand
Guidelines document can be found on the [Brand Resources
page](https://www.owasp.org/index.php/Marketing/Resources#tab=BRAND_GUIDELINES).

Below is a copy of the OWASP Logo for official use. More logos can also
be found on the Brand Resources page, as well as materials useful for
promoting OWASP.

![Owasp logo](Owasp_logo.jpg "Owasp logo")

# 2012 Press Releases

  - March 12, 2012:
    <http://owasp.blogspot.com/2012/03/appsecdc-2012.html>
  - March 9, 2012:
    <http://owasp.blogspot.com/2012/03/owasp-mission-and-principles.html>


<headertabs />