**Funding Submission**

This is a proposal under the [Project
Reboot 2012](https://www.owasp.org/index.php/Projects_Reboot_2012)
scheme.

1\) **Project name**

[OWASP AppSensor Project](OWASP_AppSensor_Project "wikilink") The reboot
initiative is led by Project Leader Michael Coates, and the existing
project contributors, who are currently developing new code and writing
an updated version of the AppSensor book.

The AppSensor project defines a conceptual framework and methodology
that offers prescriptive guidance to implement intrusion detection and
automated response into an existing application. The new code and book
are intended to help adoption of the concepts, but that work does not
form part of this reboot bid. The reboot funding is to support the
promotion of the project by contributing to marketing costs.

2\) **Project type**

A Type 2 project to pay for expenses associated with marketing the
project.

3\) **Goals**

The goals are threefold:

  - Pay for any design costs in creating a front cover for the book
    (10%)
  - Fund the printing (and delivery) of 250 copies of the book, which
    can be used by project participants as prizes or give-aways during
    AppSensor presentations at OWASP chapter meetings, OWASP conferences
    and related events (60%)
  - Pay for the layout and printing of flyers to promote the project and
    book in conference bags (30%)

4\) **Timeline**

Invoices for the required services will be sent directly to the
foundation for payment, but it is expected that around half will be
required up to December 2012, and the remainder in the first half of
2013. For the largest part of the funds, book printing, this will
generally be done on demand e.g. 10 copies for chapter meeting X, 20
copies for conference Y. The estimated cost per book is $12 including
delivery. There may be some opportunity for printing in larger
quantities if these can be conveniently stored and redistributed.

**Status update (22 Feb 2013): The book is well underway and about 75%
complete. A publication date of June 2013 is the target.** **Status
update (03 May 2014): Book v2 published.** **Status update (11 Jan
2015): Project mailing list contacted about remaining funds.**

5\) **Milestone reviewers**

In addition to the GPC, an independent reviewer will be requested from
the membership of the other global committees.

The reboot team will maintain a schedule of invoices, and book
distribution.

6\) **Budget**

The budget is 5,000 USD.

The funds will not be used for travel, subsistence or accommodation, or
for summits, or to pay any participant in the project/reboot or who are
involved with OWASP as individuals or as companies. AppSensor team
members are hoping to promote AppSensor in their local areas, but where
there are expenses to travel to OWASP events, these would be requested
from the local chapter, or via OWASP on the Move.