**The following initial funding to be considered and allocated as can be
agreed:**

**a)** graphic design artist to re-do all the diagrams we will end up
creating (badly). Although I love the artists at Deviant Art, I think it
might be worth looking for a while to find someone with a great
attention to detail, a good track record of creating software
engineering diagrams, and most importantly design clean, consistent, and
good looking diagrams. The diagrams in their native format must be
licensed so we can re-use them with no further costs - i.e. we own the
originals and can publish them as we see fit. We will need to work out a
job lot cost and do it right near the end, and will likely be the
largest single cost.

**b)** airfare + hotel funding for core team members this AppSec
Research. If the Board feels there is adequate budget for the core
members of the Development Guide project to meet at AppSec Research this
year, happy for you to consider that possibility, especially as we could
really use a solid planning session and most importantly, an initial
hack-a-thon to get started. This could easily hit $20k, and I don't want
you to splurge on that amount unless you feel that the Foundation has
the sort of cash that would allow that to happen. Argh, I just realised
that I have no leave left for a July conference. Hmmm. Let me think this
one through - it might be worthwhile to consider this for AppSec US
later in the year when I have a bit of leave.

**c)** Project management software. I'd like for one of the following to
be considered and bought: Either Confluence + Calendars ($20 / month per
10 users). Considering how long it took to do 2.0, I would imagine the
cost will be around 18 months @ $40 per month = $720 for the project. Or
a copy of OmniPlan for me ($200 USD from the AppStore), and means we
could continue to use Google Code for the Wiki. Relies on me exporting
to PDF regularly enough for everyone to see where we are at. There are
pluses and minuses for each solution. I think an earlier start would be
had with OmniPlan, but more transparency with Confluence + calendaring.

The major minus of Confluence is the time to port existing material now,
versus the saving in creating a PDF at the end will be much faster than
with Google Code. OmniPlan is by far the stronger project management
tool, but the minus is that it's pretty much my creature, and I hate
being a road block. Additionally, OmniPlan is completely disassociated
from the materials. (Swings and roundabouts. Your call.)

**d)** WebEx or other meeting software for up to one hour per month of
virtual meetings for the wider project. I am not sure of costs for this,
or if we have any such facilities at the moment.

**e)** Skype credits for major contributors. I would envisage about
$50-100 all up per year per major contributor. This is to allow
multi-window video chats between the core group

**f)** (probably next year's budget) airfare + hotel funding for me to
release the Developer Guide at one of AppSec Research 2013 / AppSec US
2013 to release it. The Guide should not be released at BlackHat or
Defcon. We got nearly no traction that way. I live at the bottom of the
earth, so please consider $5000 to be a minimal workable amount here.

I am sure there will be more, but this will do for now. Let's see how
many folks actually end up contributing\! :)

**Goals**

1.  Redevelop the guide to release quality.
2.  Market the development guide to increase adoption.