1\) **Project name:** **[Eliminate Vulnerable Code
Project](Eliminate_Vulnerable_Code_Project "wikilink")**[1](https://www.owasp.org/index.php/Eliminate_Vulnerable_Code_Project)

2\) **Description:** Eliminate Vulnerable Code Project is geared at
identifying and removing vulnerable code samples from the public domain.
The project has 4 main areas of interest:

*i) Internet Web Forums*

*ii) Educational Institutions*

*iii) Printed Materials*

*iv) Open source software*

3\) **Project Team Leader:** **[Waqas
Nazir](User:Waqas_Nazir "wikilink")** and we already have about 15
contributors for the project.

4\) **Re boot type:** Type 1

5\) **Goals of the reboot:** The goals for the reboot are divided into
the following main areas:

*i) Internet Web Forums:* The Evc Probe scanner needs more rules to be
added to scan for other development languages. Currently it is only
looking for a small set of issues in .NET and Java code. The hope is to
add 50 more checks.

*ii) Educational Institutions:* Work with at least two educational
institutions to review their software development curriculums to
identify any insecure code being used to teach developers.

*iii) Printed Materials:* Review at least one software development book
to identify any insecure code being used as references.

*iv) Open source software:* Identify 1 high impact open source software
to begin static analysis and manual review with the help of OWASP
members.

*v) Prime sponsor:* List OWASP as a prime sponsor on
[2](https://evc.digitsec.com/sponsor.aspx)

6\) **Timeline:** The timeline for the aforementioned goals is as
follows:

*i) Internet Web Forums:*

50 % milestone = 25 new checks (August 30th, 2012).

100 % milestone = 50 new checks (September 15th, 2012).

*ii) Educational Institutions:*

50 % milestone = work with and complete analysis of first curriculum

100 % milestone = work with and complete analysis of second curriculum

*iii) Printed Materials:*

100 % milestone = Identify and work on one software development book to
identify insecure code being used as reference.

*iv) Open source software:*

50 % milestone = Identify 1 high impact open source software for review
and create the review team with OWASP leaders (August 15th, 2012).

100 % milestone = Document and complete initial analysis (September
30th, 2012)

*v) Prime sponsor:* 100 % milestone = List OWASP as a prime sponsor on
**[|
<https://evc.digitsec.com/sponsor.aspx>](https://evc.digitsec.com/sponsor.aspx)**

7\) **Budget:**

USD 10 K for prime sponsorship of EVC Project.

Sponsorship benefits are listed here:
[3](http://www.digitsec.com/sponsor_evc.htm)

25 % of the funds will go for developing new checks for the Evc Probe
scanner.

50 % of the funds will go for the development of the review process for
educational institutions, printed materials, and open source software.

25 % will go towards organizing the reviews and co-ordination of the
review activities.