Leader: Abbas Naderi Afooshteh (abbas.naderi@owasp.org)

# Description

OWASP WebGoat is a deliberately insecure JSP web application with plenty
of web vulnerabilities designed to increase awareness and provide
practical education environment for common web security flaws. WebGoat
user has to "hack" the application in various scenarios, and sometimes
change the code to be resistant to hacking. Plenty of hints and
descriptions are also available.

WebGoat is most famous amongst OWASP projects, with more than 750000
wiki hits and many positive feedbacks. Many instructors as well as
security experts use WebGoat to provide an applicable security awareness
environment.

WebGoatPHP is a port of WebGoat to PHP - most commonly used and commonly
flawed web application language - and MySQL/SQLite databases. There are
a few additions to WebGoatPHP that are not available in the original
WebGoat:

**Contest Mode** : WebGoatPHP delivers contest mode, in which challenges
are presented to a contestant, without hints and help, and solving each
challenge opens the next and also provides some points and timing. This
mode makes WebGoatPHP ideal for CTFs and many contributers will add
challenges to it over the time.

**Workshop Mode** : In workshop mode, WebGoatPHP has centralized control
system, where a lecturer controls hints, help and progress of different
participants to their needs so that they can master the tricks.

**Secure Coding Mode** : User should change the code in a way that
security flaws are no longer there.

These three modes would make WebGoatPHP much more practical and provide
it with many contributers and developers.

# Reboot Type

WebGoatPHP is already started but very little progress has been made,
since a few developers signed up for GSoC 2012 and they were rejected.
We need type 2 reboot, to increase awareness and get some community on
the project. The project is amusing enough we don't need any budget for
contributers. Finally a type 1 reboot is the goal.

# Goals of Reboot

We plan to gather a community of at least 5 people working on
WebGoatPHP's first release. Most common vulnerabilities are planned for
this release. After that, community will grow larger and people will
start working on this.

# Timeline

Approximately 3 months of summer would suffice for release of first
version. Half summer would be appropriate for 50% milestone. Current
WebGoat participants and leaders are suited for reviews, as well as any
other OWASP people.

# Budget

I can't estimate required budget, but I've listed what needs to be done,
so I'd appreciate it if some expert would care to estimate a budget/plan
for this course of action.