`This is a DRAFT page still under development by the `[`Global``
 ``Projects``   ``Committee`](Global_Projects_Committee "wikilink")

# Introduction

As OWASP gains more and more visibility in the industry, the quality of
OWASP Projects and the OWASP website becomes more important. Past OWASP
Seasons of Code have slowly but surely brought a shift in quality to
OWASP Projects but there is still much work to be done. This proposal
outlines the policy changes drafted by the Global Projects Committee in
order to improve the overall state of OWASP Projects, and by extension
the OWASP website. Current Project Qualifiers Currently, all projects
are categorized as Alpha, Beta, Release or Inactive. The OWASP Project
Assessment Criteria has clear definitions for Alpha, Beta and Release
quality projects, but the evolving nature of all OWASP projects limited
the ability of these qualifiers to fully characterize the current state
of the project. For example, the ESAPI project is classified as “release
quality” projects and yet contains numerous different versions (.NET,
Cold Fusion, PHP, etc) as well as different releases for which a formal
assessment has not necessarily been performed. The problem lies in the
fact that there are many dimensions to a project and the Alpha, Beta and
Release qualifiers are currently assumed for all dimensions of the
project. As such, the Global Projects Committee proposes to separate
characteristics used for project evaluation and apply appropriate the
qualifiers.

# Project Status vs. Project Versions

First and foremost, we propose two primary dimensions: individual
project versions and overall project status. In the software industry,
this strategy is already in use at major open source organizations like
the Apache and Eclipse Foundations. Individual projects have a release
cycle where projects versions go through alpha, beta, release candidate
and then finally release versions. In addition, projects at these
organizations are classified by project status. Namely, both foundations
have an incubator for projects that are in “incubation” that have not
yet reached full maturity. These two dimensions are independent of one
another. There is no reason why a project in incubation cannot have
release quality versions or a project not in incubation cannot have an
alpha quality version. We believe this distinction allows for greater
expression of the quality of OWASP projects and releases. It removes any
“stigma” associated with being a Beta or Alpha Status project while
still allowing OWASP to characterize the quality of any project
deliverables. As the Global Projects Committee defines Project
Assessment Criteria v2.0, we will take the existing criteria and
reorganize them with these dimensions in mind. For example, a
characteristic like having a project mailing list would become a
requirement relating to project status where as having project reviewers
would become a requirement relating to project versions.

# Project Versions

The Global Projects Committee intends to keep the Alpha, Beta and
Release designations as qualifiers for project versions. By associating
these designations with versions, these quality designations become
associated with specific deliverables. In that sense, it becomes
possible to have consistency across all OWASP projects necessary for
potential OWASP users to evaluate the version of a project they are
using. This system also allows high visibility projects to maintain
different versions that may still be under development, and therefore
unstable, without compromising the quality status associated with the
overall project.

# Project Statuses

The Global Projects Committee plans to introduce the following
designations as qualifiers for project status: Startup, Incubator and
Community Endorsed. Projects that are just starting and have not made
any deliverables will be designated as Startup projects. Upon successful
completion of incubation entry criteria (to be defined), a project will
be designated as an Incubator project. A project in incubation that has
achieved a positive track record with deliverables, established itself
within the community, and achieved incubation exit criteria (to be
defined) will be promoted as a Community Endorsed project.

**More to follow** --[Jason Li](User:Jason_Li "wikilink")