**Funding Submission**

This is a proposal under the [Project
Reboot 2012](https://www.owasp.org/index.php/Projects_Reboot_2012)
scheme.

1\) **Project name**

[OWASP Zed Attack Proxy
Project](OWASP_Zed_Attack_Proxy_Project "wikilink")

The reboot initiative is led by Project Leader [Simon
Bennetts](User:Simon_Bennetts "wikilink") and the existing project
contributors.

The Zed Attack Proxy (ZAP) is an easy to use integrated penetration
testing tool for finding vulnerabilities in web applications.

It is designed to be used by people with a wide range of security
experience and as such is ideal for developers and functional testers
who are new to penetration testing.

While it is considered to be an OWASP flagship project it is not as well
known as many other projects which limits its adoption. The reboot
funding is to support the promotion of the project by contributing to
marketing costs.

2\) **Project type**

A Type 2 project to pay for expenses associated with marketing the
project.

3\) **Goals**

The goal of this initiative is to increase awareness of ZAP within the
security and development communities.

This will be achieved by working with the marketing company selected to
work with OWASP.

Options include (but are not limited to):

  - Web based adverts
  - Trade magazine based adverts
  - Professionally produced videos
  - Interviews with well known on and off-line publications

The options are left deliberately open so that we can fully utilize the
experience of the chosen marketing company.

It is hoped that the way we promote ZAP could become a template for
promoting other OWASP projects in the future.

4\) **Timeline**

Invoices for the required services will be sent directly to the
foundation for payment. The timing will depend on how long it takes for
the relevant company to be selected and how quickly the engagement can
begin, but the ZAP development team are keen to make this happen as
quickly as possible.

5\) **Milestone reviewers**

In addition to the GPC, an independent reviewer will be requested from
the membership of the other global committees.

The reboot team will maintain a schedule of invoices, and record the
impact of the initiatives based on ZAP downloads and automated 'check
for update' requests.

6\) **Budget**

The budget is 5,000 USD.

The funds will not be used for travel, subsistence or accommodation, or
for summits, or to pay any participant in the project/reboot or who are
involved with OWASP as individuals or as companies.