## The presentation

![Owasp_logo_normal.jpg](Owasp_logo_normal.jpg
"Owasp_logo_normal.jpg")Currently, federal government organizations are
not particularly focused on application layer security. The major reason
behind this is that federal organizations are driven primarily by
compliance related pressures. While FISMA presents a comprehensive
approach to managing risk from information security, the actual security
controls defined within the NIST FISMA guidelines stress traditional
network and platform security far more than application security. During
this presentation, we will present the NIST Special Pub 800-53 security
controls (a subset of those controls required to support FISMA
compliance) that directly or indirectly imply the need to implement and
assess application security. We will also present the components of the
NIST Security Content Automation Program (S-CAP) that support
application security. Finally, we will identify the gaps that remain in
the drivers for federal government implementation of effective
application security programs and provide recommendations on how to
close the gap.

## The speaker

Dr. Sarbari Gupta has been active in the information security industry
for over twenty years as an entrepreneur, executive, architect,
researcher, and software engineer. She is the Founder and President of
Electrosoft, a technology company providing services to federal and
commercial customers in the areas of identity management and information
security. Dr. Gupta has written many technical papers and holds four
patents. She has a PhD in EE and holds CISSP, CISA and CAP
certifications.

[Category:OWASP_AppSec_DC_09](Category:OWASP_AppSec_DC_09 "wikilink")
[Category:OWASP_Conference_Presentations](Category:OWASP_Conference_Presentations "wikilink")