![468x60-banner-2010.gif](468x60-banner-2010.gif
"468x60-banner-2010.gif")

[Registration](https://guest.cvent.com/EVENTS/Register/IdentityConfirmation.aspx?e=d52c6f5f-d568-4e16-b8e0-b5e2bf87ab3a)
|
[Hotel](https://resweb.passkey.com/Resweb.do?mode=welcome_gi_new&groupID=2766908)
| [Walter E. Washington Convention
Center](http://www.dcconvention.com/)
\== The presentation ==

![Owasp_logo_normal.jpg](Owasp_logo_normal.jpg
"Owasp_logo_normal.jpg")Social Media and Web 2.0 technologies - such as
blogs, podcasts, web chat, Facebook, Twitter, RSS feeds and wikis –
offer a variety of mechanisms that integrate technology, social
interaction, and dynamic content creation. They offer a rich set of
facilities for users to interact with one another and with remote
servers to facilitate content generation, sharing and distribution.
Understandably, US federal government organizations are eager to harness
the power of Web 2.0 technologies to further their mission and business
objectives. However, there is a vast set of security challenges in
integrating Web 2.0 technologies into the current federal government IT
infrastructure. Most of the security challenges related to the use of
Web 2.0 technologies revolve around application security
vulnerabilities. For example, most of the OWASP Top 10 security risks
are inherent in the use of Web 2.0 technologies.

The Federal Information Security Management Act (FISMA) of 2002 serves
as the core driver for information security practices within the federal
government. The security goals of FISMA are to protect the
confidentiality, integrity and availability (C.I.A.) of information
being processed, stored or transmitted by government information
systems. It is interesting to note that many of the security risks posed
by application security threats (such as malicious scripts uploaded to a
government server by one user being downloaded and executed by another
user) are beyond the scope of the FISMA goals since such actions do not
directly compromise the C.I.A. of information handled by a government
information system. Yet, such vulnerabilities may directly impact the
“reliability” and “safety” of government information systems.

This presentation will focus on the application security challenges in
embracing Web 2.0 within the federal government, both from client (i.e.,
running Web 2.0 clients that connect to a non-federal Web 2.0 service)
and server (i.e., hosting a Web 2.0 service within the federal
environment) perspectives. We will then discuss whether and how the
current set of FISMA security controls (as described in the NIST Special
Publication 800-53 Revision 3) are effective in addressing or mitigating
the Web 2.0 threats. Finally, we will provide specific approaches to
strengthening the security management and implementation techniques used
within the federal government to allow the judicious adoption of
selected Web 2.0 technologies within the federal IT infrastructure.

## The speaker

Speaker bio will be posted shortly.

[Category:AppSec_DC_2010_Presentations](Category:AppSec_DC_2010_Presentations "wikilink")
[Category:OWASP_Conference_Presentations](Category:OWASP_Conference_Presentations "wikilink")