![468x60-banner-2010.gif](468x60-banner-2010.gif
"468x60-banner-2010.gif")

[Registration](https://guest.cvent.com/EVENTS/Register/IdentityConfirmation.aspx?e=d52c6f5f-d568-4e16-b8e0-b5e2bf87ab3a)
|
[Hotel](https://resweb.passkey.com/Resweb.do?mode=welcome_gi_new&groupID=2766908)
| [Walter E. Washington Convention
Center](http://www.dcconvention.com/)
\== The presentation ==

![Owasp_logo_normal.jpg](Owasp_logo_normal.jpg
"Owasp_logo_normal.jpg")The base DNS specification has certain security
vulnerabilities that, with recent findings, makes it even more trivial
for someone to spoof DNS responses and have the application act upon
these responses. In this day and age of cloud based and web-based
services it becomes even more important for an application to know that
it is reaching its intended destination and to react appropriately to
spoofing incidents. With DNSSEC now being actively deployed across
various name server installations, now is an opportune time for
applications to begin to take advantage of some of the benefits that
DNSSEC provides. In this presentation we will focus on the extensions we
made to the Firefox browser such that it supports various DNSSEC
indicators. We will briefly discuss an API we have developed and the
modifications we have made to the application user interface. We do so
in order to encourage application developers to consider DNS security
implications in their Internet and web applications, and to encourage
them to think of even more innovative ways of harnessing the benefits of
this technology.

## Suresh Krishnaswamy

Suresh Krishnaswamy is a Research Scientist at SPARTA Inc and has many
years of experience in protocol development and network security. He
currently leads the development of the DNSSEC-Tools suite at SPARTA,
develops tools and libraries in support of DNSSEC deployment, and is a
partner in the US Dept. of Homeland Security S\&T-led DNSSEC Deployment
Initiative. He is active in the IETF and has co-authored and contributed
text for a number of Internet Drafts and RFCs.

[Category:AppSec_DC_2010_Presentations](Category:AppSec_DC_2010_Presentations "wikilink")
[Category:OWASP_Conference_Presentations](Category:OWASP_Conference_Presentations "wikilink")