Un proyecto de OWASP es una colección de tareas relacionadas que tienen
un plan de trabajo definido y miembros de equipo. Los líderes de
proyectos de OWASP son responsables de definir la visión y plan de
trabajo del proyecto. El líder de proyecto también promueve el proyecto
y construye el equipo.

Si le gustaría iniciar un nuevo proyecto por favor revise la guía de
[¿Cómo iniciar un
proyecto?](How_to_Start_an_OWASP_Project "wikilink"). Por favor envíe un
correo a
[owasp@owasp.org](mailto:owasp@owasp.org?subject=New_OWASP_Project_idea)
para discutir sus ideas de proyecto y como se adaptan a OWASP. Todos los
proyectos de OWASP deben ser libres y abiertos y tener su página
principal en el portal de OWASP. Puede leer todos los lineamientos en el
[criterio de evaluación de
proyectos](:Category:OWASP_Project_Assessment "wikilink").

Cada proyecto tiene un lista de distribución asociada. Puede ver todas
las listas, examinar sus archivos y suscribirse a cualquiera de ellas en
la página de [listas de distribución de proyectos
OWASP](http://lists.owasp.org/mailman/listinfo)

## [Proyectos de Calidad de Publicación](:Category:OWASP_Project_Assessment "wikilink")

Los documentos de calidad de publicación son generalmente del nivel de
calidad de herramientas o documentos profesionales.

Hemos iniciado el proceso de definir los lineamientos detallados, los
cuales indican que será requerido de un proyecto de OWASP para ser
clasificado un proyecto de calidad de publicación (vea el [criterio de
evaluación de
proyectos](:Category:OWASP_Project_Assessment "wikilink")). Por favor
note que los proyectos abajo **NO** han sido evaluados bajo este
criterio y pueden ser reclasificados una ves que el proceso haya sido
completado. También note que solo las descripciones de los proyectos de
nivel de publicación han sido traducidas al Español.

<table width="100%" valign="top">

<tr>

<th width="50%">

Herramientas

</th>

<th>

Documentación

</th>

</tr>

<tr valign="top">

<td>

  - [OWASP WebGoat](:Category:OWASP_WebGoat_Project "wikilink")
    un ambiente de entrenamiento en línea para "aprender haciendo" sobre
    seguridad en aplicaciones

<!-- end list -->

  - [OWASP WebScarab](:Category:OWASP_WebScarab_Project "wikilink")
    una herramienta para realizar todo tipo de pruebas de seguridad en
    aplicaciones y servicios Web.

</td>

<td>

  - [Preguntas frecuentes sobre seguridad en
    aplicaciones](:Category:OWASP_AppSec_FAQ_Project "wikilink")
    Preguntas frecuentes que cubren temas de seguridad

<!-- end list -->

  - [Guía de Desarrollo de
    OWASP](:Category:OWASP_Guide_Project "wikilink")
    un documento masivo que cubre todos los aspectos de la seguridad en
    aplicaciones y servicios Web

<!-- end list -->

  - [Proyecto Legal de
    OWASP](:Category:OWASP_Legal_Project "wikilink")
    un proyecto enfocado en contratar sofware seguro

<!-- end list -->

  - [Guía de Pruebas de
    OWASP](:Category:OWASP_Testing_Project "wikilink")
    un proyecto enfocado en procedimientos y listas de verificacion para
    pruebas de seguridad en aplicaciones

<!-- end list -->

  - [Las 10 mayores vulnerabilidades de
    OWASP](:Category:OWASP_Top_Ten_Project "wikilink")
    una documento informativo que describe las 10 vulnerabilidades mas
    comúnes en aplicaciones web

</td>

</tr>

</table>

## [Proyectos de el verano de codificación en progreso](:OWASP_Summer_of_Code_2008 "wikilink")

Los proyectos bajo esta categoría están en desarrollo. Se espera que el
proyecto este terminado para el 15 de septiembre. Despues de que haya
terminado la temporada de codificación, todos los proyectos serán
movidos a la categoría adecuada (Alfa, Beta o Publicación). Note que los
títulos y las descripciones no fueron traducidas por su transitoriedad.

<table width="100%" valign="top">

<tr>

<th width="50%">

Herramientas

</th>

<th>

Documentación

</th>

</tr>

<tr valign="top">

<td>

  - [GTK+GUI for w3af
    Project](:Category:GTK_plus_GUI_for_w3af_Project "wikilink")
    The main objective is to minimize the effort and learning curve of
    using w3af, providing a very usable graphical interface. This
    project is being sponsored by [OWASP Summer of
    Code](OWASP_Summer_of_Code_2008 "wikilink").

<!-- end list -->

  - [OWASP Access Control Rules Tester
    Project](:Category:OWASP_Access_Control_Rules_Tester_Project "wikilink")
    This project is intended to have two deliverables: research
    technical report (publication ready article) and an Access Control
    Rules Tester tool. This project is being sponsored by [OWASP Summer
    of Code](OWASP_Summer_of_Code_2008 "wikilink").

<!-- end list -->

  - [OWASP AntiSamy
    Project](:Category:OWASP_AntiSamy_Project_.NET "wikilink")
    An API for validating rich HTML/CSS input from users without
    exposure to cross-site scripting and phishing attacks. This project
    is being sponsored by [OWASP Summer of
    Code](OWASP_Summer_of_Code_2008 "wikilink").

<!-- end list -->

  - [OWASP Application Security Tool Benchmarking Environment and Site
    Generator Refresh
    Project](:Category:OWASP_Application_Security_Tool_Benchmarking_Environment_and_Site_Generator_Refresh_Project "wikilink")
    The idea is to split destination web application technology from the
    three reusable libraries: library of navigational elements, library
    of vulnerabilities and library of language constructs. This project
    is being sponsored by [OWASP Summer of
    Code](OWASP_Summer_of_Code_2008 "wikilink").

<!-- end list -->

  - [OWASP Code Crawler](:Category:OWASP_Code_Crawler "wikilink")
    This tool is aimed at assisting code review practitioners. It is a
    static code review tool which searches for key topics within .NET
    and J2EE/JAVA code. The aim of the tool is to accompany the OWASP
    Code review Guide and to implement a total code review solution for
    "everyone"; Where "everyone" means "more" companies performing
    secure software activities. This project is being sponsored by
    [OWASP Summer of Code](OWASP_Summer_of_Code_2008 "wikilink").

<!-- end list -->

  - [OWASP Interceptor
    Project](:Category:OWASP_Interceptor_Project "wikilink")
    A testing tool for XML web service and Ajax interfaces. This project
    is being sponsored by [OWASP Summer of
    Code](OWASP_Summer_of_Code_2008 "wikilink").

<!-- end list -->

  - [OWASP JSP Testing Tool
    Project](:Category:OWASP_JSP_Testing_Tool_Project "wikilink")
    The goal of this project is to create an easy to use, freely
    available tool that can be used to quickly ascertain the level of
    protection that each component of a JSP tag library offers. This
    project is being sponsored by [OWASP Summer of
    Code](OWASP_Summer_of_Code_2008 "wikilink").

<!-- end list -->

  - [OWASP Live CD 2008
    Project](:Category:OWASP_Live_CD_2008_Project "wikilink")
    The goal of this project is to take the existing applications and
    documentation in the current Live CD and add significantly more
    tools and documentation specifically focused on Web application
    security. This project is being sponsored by [OWASP Summer of
    Code](OWASP_Summer_of_Code_2008 "wikilink").

<!-- end list -->

  - [OWASP OpenSign Server
    Project](:Category:OWASP_OpenSign_Server_Project "wikilink")
    The purpose of this project would be to build and host a
    feature-rich server and suite of client utilities with adequate
    secure hardware to ensure the integrity of code modules. This
    project is being sponsored by [OWASP Summer of
    Code](OWASP_Summer_of_Code_2008 "wikilink").

<!-- end list -->

  - [OWASP OpenPGP Extensions for HTTP - Enigform and mod
    openpgp](:Category:OWASP_OpenPGP_Extensions_for_HTTP_-_Enigform_and_mod_openpgp "wikilink")
    The goal of this project is to focus on mod_openpgp and Secure
    Session Management, presenting a working web-site using this new
    authentication methodology in such a way that it will attract
    security professionals and web-developers to this new mix of two
    good'ol protocols: HTTP and OpenPGP. This project is being sponsored
    by [OWASP Summer of Code](OWASP_Summer_of_Code_2008 "wikilink").

<!-- end list -->

  - [OWASP Orizon Project](:Category:OWASP_Orizon_Project "wikilink")
    The goal of this project is to develop an extensible code review
    engine to be used from source code assessment tools. This project is
    being sponsored by [OWASP Summer of
    Code](OWASP_Summer_of_Code_2008 "wikilink").

<!-- end list -->

  - [OWASP Python Static Analysis
    Project](:Category:OWASP_Python_Static_Analysis_Project "wikilink")
    The aim of this project is to bring this project to at least beta
    quality to become OWASP open source project: full language
    support,other Python frameworks support, analysis improvement,
    reporting capability, documentation, promotion materials:
    publication-ready article and presentation. This project is being
    sponsored by [OWASP Summer of
    Code](OWASP_Summer_of_Code_2008 "wikilink").

<!-- end list -->

  - [OWASP Skavenger
    Project](:Category:OWASP_Skavenger_Project "wikilink")
    This project is a web application security assessment toolkit. It
    passively analyzes traffic logged by various MITM proxies as well as
    other sources and helps to identify various kinds of possible
    vulnerabilities. Skavenger's modular design allows the integration
    of custom scanning modules without any knowledge about the tool at
    all. This project is being sponsored by [OWASP Summer of
    Code](OWASP_Summer_of_Code_2008 "wikilink").

<!-- end list -->

  - [OWASP Sqlibench
    Project](:Category:OWASP_Sqlibench_Project "wikilink")
    This is a benchmarking project of automatic sql injectors related to
    dumping databases. This project is being sponsored by [OWASP Summer
    of Code](OWASP_Summer_of_Code_2008 "wikilink").

<!-- end list -->

  - [OWASP Teachable Static Analysis Workbench
    Project](:Category:OWASP_Teachable_Static_Analysis_Workbench_Project "wikilink")
    This project is intended to have two deliverables: research
    technical report (publication ready article) and a workbench
    prototype. This project is being sponsored by [OWASP Summer of
    Code](OWASP_Summer_of_Code_2008 "wikilink").

<!-- end list -->

  - [OWASP WeBekci
    Project](:Category:OWASP_WeBekci_Project "wikilink")
    OWASP WeBekci is a web based ModSecurity 2.x management tool.
    WeBekci is written in PHP, Its backend is powered by MySQL and the
    frontend by XAJAX framework. This project is being sponsored by
    [OWASP Summer of Code](OWASP_Summer_of_Code_2008 "wikilink").

</td>

<td>

  - [OWASP ASDR Project](:Category:OWASP_ASDR_Project "wikilink")
    The ASDR is a reference volume that contains basic information about
    all the foundational topics in application security. This project is
    being sponsored by [OWASP Summer of
    Code](OWASP_Summer_of_Code_2008 "wikilink").

<!-- end list -->

  - [OWASP Application Security Verification Standard
    Project](:Category:OWASP_Application_Security_Verification_Standard_Project "wikilink")
    This is a new project created to define an evaluation framework that
    may be used to conduct OWASP Application Security Verification
    Standard certifications. This project is being sponsored by [OWASP
    Summer of Code](OWASP_Summer_of_Code_2008 "wikilink").

<!-- end list -->

  - [OWASP AppSensor
    Project](:Category:OWASP_AppSensor_Project "wikilink")
    A framework for detecting and responding to attacks from within the
    application. This project is being sponsored by [OWASP Summer of
    Code](OWASP_Summer_of_Code_2008 "wikilink").

<!-- end list -->

  - [OWASP Backend Security
    Project](:Category:OWASP_Backend_Security_Project "wikilink")
    This is a new project created to improve and to collect the existant
    information about the backend security. This project is being
    sponsored by [OWASP Summer of
    Code](OWASP_Summer_of_Code_2008 "wikilink").

<!-- end list -->

  - [OWASP Book Cover & Sleeve
    Design](:Category:OWASP_Book_Cover_&_Sleeve_Design "wikilink")
    This is a project of corporate design to develop a scalable book
    cover series strategy and a Book Sleeve. This project is being
    sponsored by [OWASP Summer of
    Code](OWASP_Summer_of_Code_2008 "wikilink").

<!-- end list -->

  - [OWASP Classic ASP Security
    Project](Classic_ASP_Security_Project "wikilink")
    It aims in creating a secure framework for Classic ASP application
    by complementing existing OWASP projects with documentation for this
    particular technology and the creation of security libraries. This
    project is being sponsored by [OWASP Summer of
    Code](OWASP_Summer_of_Code_2008 "wikilink").

<!-- end list -->

  - [OWASP Code Review
    Project](:Category:OWASP_Code_Review_Project "wikilink")
    A project to capture best practices for reviewing code. This project
    is being sponsored by [OWASP Summer of
    Code](OWASP_Summer_of_Code_2008 "wikilink").

<!-- end list -->

  - [OWASP Corporate Application Security Rating
    Guide](:OWASP_Corporate_Application_Security_Rating_Guide "wikilink")
    This project will organize and structure publicly available data
    that large companies will share of the lessons learned about how to
    organize an application security initiative, best practices for
    training and testing, and more. This project is being sponsored by
    [OWASP Summer of Code](OWASP_Summer_of_Code_2008 "wikilink").

<!-- end list -->

  - [OWASP Education
    Project](:Category:OWASP_Education_Project "wikilink")
    A project to build educational tracks and modules for different
    audiences. This project is being sponsored by [OWASP Summer of
    Code](OWASP_Summer_of_Code_2008 "wikilink").

<!-- end list -->

  - [OWASP Individual and Corporate Member Packs/Conference Attendee
    Packs
    Brief](:Category:OWASP_Individual_and_Corporate_Member_Packs_plus_Conference_Attendee_Packs_Brief "wikilink")
    This is a project of corporate design to develop an
    Individual/Member Pack. This project is being sponsored by [OWASP
    Summer of Code](OWASP_Summer_of_Code_2008 "wikilink").

<!-- end list -->

  - [OWASP Internationalization
    Project](OWASP_Internationalization "wikilink")
    General guidelines to start a new translation project for OWASP site
    and projects. This project is being sponsored by [OWASP Summer of
    Code](OWASP_Summer_of_Code_2008 "wikilink").

<!-- end list -->

  - [OWASP .NET Project](:Category:OWASP_.NET_Project "wikilink")
    The purpose of the this project is to provide a central repository
    of information and tools for software professionals that use the
    Microsoft .NET Framework for web applications and services. This
    project is being sponsored by [OWASP Summer of
    Code](OWASP_Summer_of_Code_2008 "wikilink").

<!-- end list -->

  - [OWASP Positive Security
    Project](:Category:OWASP_Positive_Security_Project "wikilink")
    This project will be used to learn how companies are working to
    create a positive security approach on their own resources and use
    this knowledge to create a set of control, marketing and awareness
    tools that will be available to promote and construct a positive
    approach to security worldwide. This project is being sponsored by
    [OWASP Summer of Code](OWASP_Summer_of_Code_2008 "wikilink").

<!-- end list -->

  - [OWASP Ruby on Rails Security Guide
    V2](:Category:OWASP_Ruby_on_Rails_Security_Guide_V2 "wikilink")
    [The last security guide for
    Rails](:Category:OWASP_Web_Application_Security_Put_Into_Practice "wikilink")
    was a great success, with a lot of more secure web applications and
    continued awareness in the community of security issues. The Ruby on
    Rails Security Project is the one and only source of information
    about Rails security topics. This project is being sponsored by
    [OWASP Summer of Code](OWASP_Summer_of_Code_2008 "wikilink").

<!-- end list -->

  - [OWASP Securing WebGoat using ModSecurity
    Project](:Category:OWASP_Securing_WebGoat_using_ModSecurity_Project "wikilink")
    The purpose of this project is to create custom Modsecurity rulesets
    that will protect WebGoat 5.2 from as many of its vulnerabilities as
    possible (the goal is 90%) without changing one line of source code.
    This project is being sponsored by [OWASP Summer of
    Code](OWASP_Summer_of_Code_2008 "wikilink").

<!-- end list -->

  - [OWASP Source Code Review OWASP-Projects
    Project](:Category:OWASP_Source_Code_Review_OWASP_Projects_Project "wikilink")
    The objectives of this project are: 1. Develop and document a
    workflow for open source projects to incorporate static analysis
    into the Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC); 2. Apply the above
    workflow as a required step for OWASP projects; 3. Aid in auditing
    select open source projects to create a baseline for comparing
    security amongst open source projects. This project is being
    sponsored by [OWASP Summer of
    Code](OWASP_Summer_of_Code_2008 "wikilink").

<!-- end list -->

  - [OWASP Spanish Project](OWASP_Spanish "wikilink")
    First translation effort to make OWASP site and project completely
    available in Spanish language. This project is being sponsored by
    [OWASP Summer of Code](OWASP_Summer_of_Code_2008 "wikilink").

<!-- end list -->

  - [OWASP Testing Guide](:Category:OWASP_Testing_Project "wikilink")
    A project focused on application security testing procedures and
    checklists. This project is being sponsored by [OWASP Summer of
    Code](OWASP_Summer_of_Code_2008 "wikilink").

</td>

</tr>

</table>

## [Proyectos en estado Beta](:Category:OWASP_Project_Assessment "wikilink")

Los proyectos de calidad Beta estan completos y listos para usarse con
su documentación. Note que los títulos y las descripciones no fueron
traducidas por el momento.

Hemos iniciado el proceso de definir los lineamientos detallados, los
cuales indican que será requerido de un proyecto de OWASP para ser
clasificado un proyecto de calidad de publicación (vea el [criterio de
evaluación de
proyectos](:Category:OWASP_Project_Assessment "wikilink")). Por favor
note que los proyectos abajo **NO** han sido evaluados bajo este
criterio y pueden ser reclasificados una ves que el proceso haya sido
completado.

<table width="100%" valign="top">

<tr>

<th width="50%">

Herramientas

</th>

<th>

Documetación

</th>

</tr>

<tr valign="top">

<td>

  - [OWASP AntiSamy
    Project](:Category:OWASP_AntiSamy_Project "wikilink")
    an API for validating rich HTML/CSS input from users without
    exposure to cross-site scripting and phishing attacks

<!-- end list -->

  - [OWASP CSRFGuard
    Project](:Category:OWASP_CSRFGuard_Project "wikilink")
    a J2EE filter that implements a unique request token to mitigate
    CSRF attacks

<!-- end list -->

  - [OWASP DirBuster
    Project](:Category:OWASP_DirBuster_Project "wikilink")
    DirBuster is a multi threaded java application designed to brute
    force directories and files names on web/application servers.

<!-- end list -->

  - [OWASP Encoding
    Project](:Category:OWASP_Encoding_Project "wikilink")
    a project focused on the development of encoding best practices for
    web applications.

<!-- end list -->

  - [OWASP Enterprise Security API (ESAPI)
    Project](:Category:OWASP_Enterprise_Security_API "wikilink")
    a free and open collection of all the security methods that a
    developer needs to build a secure web application.

<!-- end list -->

  - [OWASP LAPSE Project](:Category:OWASP_LAPSE_Project "wikilink")
    an Eclipse-based source-code static analysis tool for Java

<!-- end list -->

  - [OWASP Live CD Education
    Project](:Category:OWASP_LiveCD_Education_Project "wikilink")
    an educational supplement project containing tutorials, challenges
    and videos detailing the use of tools contained within the OWASP
    LiveCD - LabRat. This project was sponsored by [OWASP Spring Of Code
    2007](OWASP_Spring_Of_Code_2007 "wikilink") and [Security
    Distro](http://www.securitydistro.com/)

<!-- end list -->

  - [OWASP Live CD 2007
    Project](:Category:OWASP_Live_CD_Project "wikilink")
    a CD containing ready to use versions of application security
    analysis and testing tools. This project was sponsored by [OWASP
    Spring Of Code 2007](OWASP_Spring_Of_Code_2007 "wikilink")

<!-- end list -->

  - [OWASP .NET Research](:Category:OWASP_.NET_Project "wikilink")
    a project focused on helping .NET developers build secure
    applications

<!-- end list -->

  - [OWASP Pantera Web Assessment Studio
    Project](:Category:OWASP_Pantera_Web_Assessment_Studio_Project "wikilink")
    a project focused on combining automated capabilities with complete
    manual testing to get the best results

<!-- end list -->

  - [OWASP Report
    Generator](ORG_%28Owasp_Report_Generator%29 "wikilink")
    a project giving security professionals a way to report and keep
    track of their projects

<!-- end list -->

  - [OWASP Site Generator](Owasp_SiteGenerator "wikilink")
    a project allowing users to create dynamic sites for use in
    training, web application scanner testing, etc...

<!-- end list -->

  - [OWASP SQLiX Project](:Category:OWASP_SQLiX_Project "wikilink")
    a project focused on the development of SQLiX, a full perl-based SQL
    scanner

<!-- end list -->

  - [OWASP Tiger](OWASP_Tiger "wikilink")
    OWASP Tiger is a Windows application originally intended to be used
    for automating the process of testing various known ASP.NET security
    issues in hosted environments. However, it is much more versatile
    than that: it can help you construct and send a HTTP requests,
    receive and analyze the responses, match them against a set of
    conditions to produce alerts, notifications that something is wrong
    with the application(s) or service(s) being tested.

<!-- end list -->

  - [OWASP WeBekci
    Project](:Category:OWASP_WeBekci_Project "wikilink")
    OWASP WeBekci is a web based ModSecurity 2.x management tool.
    WeBekci is written in PHP, Its backend is powered by MySQL and the
    frontend by XAJAX framework.

<!-- end list -->

  - [OWASP WSFuzzer
    Project](:Category:OWASP_WSFuzzer_Project "wikilink")
    a project focused on the development of WSFuzzer, a full
    python-based Web Services SOAP fuzzer

</td>

<td>

  - [OWASP CLASP Project](:Category:OWASP_CLASP_Project "wikilink")
    a project focused on defining process elements that reinforce
    application security

<!-- end list -->

  - [OWASP Code Review
    Project](:Category:OWASP_Code_Review_Project "wikilink")
    A project to capture best practices for reviewing code. This project
    is being sponsored by [OWASP Summer of
    Code](OWASP_Summer_of_Code_2008 "wikilink").

<!-- end list -->

  - [OWASP Tools Project](:Category:OWASP_Tools_Project "wikilink")
    The OWASP Tools Project's goal is to provide unbiased, practical
    information and guidance about application security tools.

</td>

</tr>

</table>

## [Proyectos en estado Alfa](:Category:OWASP_Project_Assessment "wikilink")

Los proyectos de calidad Alfa generalmente son usables pero les puede
faltas documentacion o revisiones de calidad.

Hemos iniciado el proceso de definir los lineamientos detallados, los
cuales indican que será requerido de un proyecto de OWASP para ser
clasificado un proyecto de calidad de publicación (vea el [criterio de
evaluación de
proyectos](:Category:OWASP_Project_Assessment "wikilink")). Por favor
note que los proyectos abajo **NO** han sido evaluados bajo este
criterio y pueden ser reclasificados una ves que el proceso haya sido
completado. También note que solo las descripciones de los proyectosde
nivel de publicación han sido traducidas al Español.

<table width="100%" valign="top">

<tr>

<th width="50%">

Herramientas

</th>

<th>

Documentación

</th>

</tr>

<tr valign="top">

<td>

  - [OWASP CSRFTester
    Project](:Category:OWASP_CSRFTester_Project "wikilink")
    gives developers the ability to test their applications for CSRF
    flaws

<!-- end list -->

  - [OWASP EnDe Project](:Category:OWASP_EnDe "wikilink")
    This tool is an encoder, decoder, converter, transformer,
    calculator, for various codings used in the wild wide web.

<!-- end list -->

  - [OWASP Google Hacking
    Project](:Category:OWASP_Google_Hacking_Project "wikilink")
    Google SOAP Search API with Perl

<!-- end list -->

  - [OWASP Insecure Web App
    Project](:Category:OWASP_Insecure_Web_App_Project "wikilink")
    a web application that includes common web application
    vulnerabilities

<!-- end list -->

  - [OWASP JBroFuzz Project](:Category:OWASP_JBroFuzz "wikilink")
    a fuzzer application, supporting a number of automated security
    checks including basic cross site scripting checks (XSS) as well as
    basic SQL injection testing. This project was sponsored by [OWASP
    Spring Of Code 2007](OWASP_Spring_Of_Code_2007 "wikilink")

<!-- end list -->

  - [OWASP NetBouncer
    Project](:Category:OWASP_NetBouncer_Project "wikilink")
    is secure by default centralised input/output validation library
    which combines security rules and business rules as well as escaping
    in the output level.

<!-- end list -->

  - [OWASP Open Review Project
    (ORPRO)](:Category:OWASP_Open_Review_Project "wikilink")
    a project to openly check open source libraries and software that
    are vital to most commercial and non-commercial apps around.

<!-- end list -->

  - [OWASP PHP AntiXSS Library
    Project](:Category:OWASP_PHP_AntiXSS_Library_Project "wikilink")
    reduce cross-site scripting vulnerabilities by encoding your output

<!-- end list -->

  - [OWASP Sprajax
    Project](:Category:OWASP_Sprajax_Project "wikilink")
    an open source black box security scanner used to assess the
    security of AJAX-enabled applications

<!-- end list -->

  - [OWASP Stinger
    Project](:Category:OWASP_Stinger_Project "wikilink")
    a project focus on the development of a centralized input validation
    mechanism which can be easily applied to existing or developmental
    applications

<!-- end list -->

  - [OWASP Web 2.0
    Project](:Category:OWASP_Web_2.0_Project "wikilink")
    A place for advanced research of security in the Web 2.0 world

</td>

<td>

  - [OWASP AIR Security
    Project](:Category:OWASP_AIR_Security_Project "wikilink")
    investigating the security of AIR applications

<!-- end list -->

  - [OWASP AJAX Security
    Guide](:Category:OWASP_AJAX_Security_Project "wikilink")
    investigating the security of AJAX enabled applications

<!-- end list -->

  - [OWASP Application Security Assessment Standards
    Project](:Category:OWASP_Application_Security_Assessment_Standards_Project "wikilink")
    establish a set of standards defining baseline approaches to
    conducting differing types/levels of application security assessment

<!-- end list -->

  - [OWASP Application Security
    Requirements](:Category:OWASP_Application_Security_Requirements_Project "wikilink")

<!-- end list -->

  - [OWASP Application Security Metrics
    Project](:Category:OWASP_Application_Security_Metrics_Project "wikilink")
    identify and provide a set of application security metrics that have
    been found by contributors to be effective in measuring application
    security

<!-- end list -->

  - [OWASP Career Development
    Project](:Category:OWASP_Career_Development_Project "wikilink")
    The OWASP Career Development project is focused on helping
    application security professionals understand the job market, roles,
    career paths, and skills to work in the field.

<!-- end list -->

  - [OWASP Certification Criteria
    Project](:Category:OWASP_Certification_Criteria_Project "wikilink")

<!-- end list -->

  - [OWASP Certification
    Project](:Category:OWASP_Certification_Project "wikilink")
    our challenge is to create a plan for certification: a set of OWASP
    Certification for Developers and Testers.

<!-- end list -->

  - [OWASP Communications
    Project](:Category:OWASP_Communications_Project "wikilink")

<!-- end list -->

  - [OWASP Flash Security
    Project](:Category:OWASP_Flash_Security_Project "wikilink")
    investigating the security of Flash applications

<!-- end list -->

  - [OWASP Honeycomb
    Project](:Category:OWASP_Honeycomb_Project "wikilink")
    a comprehensive and integrated guide to the fundamental building
    blocks of application security

<!-- end list -->

  - [OWASP Java Project](:Category:OWASP_Java_Project "wikilink")
    a project focused on helping Java and J2EE developers build secure
    applications

<!-- end list -->

  - [OWASP Logging Guide](:Category:OWASP_Logging_Project "wikilink")
    a project to define best practices for logging and log management

<!-- end list -->

  - [OWASP PHP Project](:Category:OWASP_PHP_Project "wikilink")
    a project focused on helping PHP developers build secure
    applications

<!-- end list -->

  - [OWASP Scholastic Application Security Assessment
    Project](:Category:OWASP_SASAP_Project "wikilink")
    a project that is intended to be the first step towards integrating
    security requirements in academic course curriculum

<!-- end list -->

  - [OWASP Validation
    Project](:Category:OWASP_Validation_Project "wikilink")
    a project that provides guidance and tools related to validation

<!-- end list -->

  - [OWASP WASS Guide](:Category:OWASP_WASS_Project "wikilink")
    a standards project to develop more concrete criteria for secure
    applications

<!-- end list -->

  - [OWASP Web Application Security Put Into
    Practice](:Category:OWASP_Web_Application_Security_Put_Into_Practice "wikilink")
    real-world web application security for Ruby on Rails, Apache and
    MySQL

<!-- end list -->

  - [OWASP XML Security Gateway Evaluation
    Criteria](:Category:OWASP_XML_Security_Gateway_Evaluation_Criteria_Project "wikilink")
    a project to define evaluation criteria for XML Security Gateways

<!-- end list -->

  - [OWASP on The Move
    Project](:Category:OWASP_on_the_Move_Project "wikilink")
    a project to match offer and demand regarding OWASP (related)
    presentations by speakers on web application security events or
    chapter meetings.

<!-- end list -->

  - [OWASP Fuzzing Code
    Database](:Category:OWASP_Fuzzing_Code_Database "wikilink")
    a project to collect, share and compose statements used as code
    injections like SQL, SSI, XSS, Formatstring and as well directory
    traversal statements.

</td>

</tr>

</table>

## Proyectos Inactivos

El criterio esta siendo desarrollado aun.

<table width="100%" valign="top">

<tr>

<th width="50%">

Tools

</th>

<th>

Documentation

</th>

</tr>

<tr valign="top">

<td>

  - [OWASP CAL9000
    Project](:Category:OWASP_CAL9000_Project "wikilink")
    a JavaScript based web application security testing suite

</td>

<td>

  -

</td>

</tr>

</table>