![468x60-banner-2010.gif](468x60-banner-2010.gif
"468x60-banner-2010.gif")

[Registration](https://guest.cvent.com/EVENTS/Register/IdentityConfirmation.aspx?e=d52c6f5f-d568-4e16-b8e0-b5e2bf87ab3a)
|
[Hotel](https://resweb.passkey.com/Resweb.do?mode=welcome_gi_new&groupID=2766908)
| [Walter E. Washington Convention
Center](http://www.dcconvention.com/)
\== The presentation ==

![Owasp_logo_normal.jpg](Owasp_logo_normal.jpg
"Owasp_logo_normal.jpg")Take a break from those talks that overstimulate
your brain with cool technical details but provide little use to your
day to day job. This talk has none of that. The goal of this talk is to
teach you basic python skills you can use every day. Join one of the
SamuraiWTF project leads and learn how to interact with websites using
python scripts and python shells. Understand the differences between the
major HTTP libraries like httplib and urllib2. Walk through sample code
that performs username harvesting and dictionary attacks. Learn how to
use Python's multithreaded features to speed up your scripts. Fall in
love with Beautiful Soup. And most importantly, discover PyCIT, a new
opensource project that provides simple, documented, and functional
python templates to accelerate your python scripting efforts.

## The speaker

**Justin Searle**, a Senior Security Analyst with InGuardians,
specializing in the penetration testing of web applications, networks,
and embedded devices. Justin is an active member of ASAP-SG (Advanced
Security Acceleration Project for the Smart Grid) and lead the Smart
Grid Security Architecture group in the create of NIST Interagency
Report 7628. Previously, Justin served as JetBlue Airwayâ€™s IT Security
Architect, and has taught courses in hacking techniques, forensics,
networking, and intrusion detection for multiple universities and
corporations. Justin has presented at top security conferences including
DEFCON, ToorCon, ShmooCon, and SANS. Justin co-leads prominent open
source projects including the Samurai Web Testing Framework, Middler,
Yokoso\!, and Laudnum. Justin has an MBA in International Technology and
is CISSP and SANS GIAC-certified in incident handling and hacker
techniques (GCIH) and intrusion analysis (GCIA).

[Category:AppSec_DC_2010_Presentations](Category:AppSec_DC_2010_Presentations "wikilink")
[Category:OWASP_Conference_Presentations](Category:OWASP_Conference_Presentations "wikilink")