*Back to [Reimbursement Process
Details](Reimbursement_Process_Details "wikilink")*

The process for OWASP staff handling reimbursement requests is as
follows:

(1) Log into the [OWASP Service
Desk](https://owasporg.atlassian.net/secure/MyJiraHome.jspa) site
![Staff-01.png](Staff-01.png "Staff-01.png") **Note**: OWASP Staff must
login using our G Suite (aka @owasp.org) credentials
![Staff-02.png](Staff-02.png "Staff-02.png")
![Staff-03.png](Staff-03.png "Staff-03.png") (2) Staff can use the
'Dashboard' to see the status of their queue
![Staff-04.png](Staff-04.png "Staff-04.png")

You can also look at the overall queues by selecting the OWASP Service
Desk (OSD) ![Staff-05.png](Staff-05.png "Staff-05.png")
![Staff-06.png](Staff-06.png "Staff-06.png") The "Assigned to me" queue
is the important one, anything with "**NEEDS APPROVAL**" is new and
should be handled first ![Staff-07.png](Staff-07.png "Staff-07.png") You
can see the overall workflow at anytime in any request details page -
the workflow looks like this ![Staff-08.png](Staff-08.png
"Staff-08.png") (3) Working a request: First you'll need to sanity check
the request by review the details page and looking at any supporting
attachments by clicking on them like ![Staff-17.png](Staff-17.png
"Staff-17.png") You can also look at the original request by clicking on
this useful link - it will open the original request in a new tab
![Orig-request-01.png](Orig-request-01.png "Orig-request-01.png")
![Orig-request-04.png](Orig-request-04.png "Orig-request-04.png") (4)
After you've sanity checked the request, you'll need to lookup the
budget owner (OWASP Leader) and add them to the request
![Staff-09.png](Staff-09.png "Staff-09.png") If the leader has never
logged into OSD, they won't be found when you try to enter their email
address ![Staff-10.png](Staff-10.png "Staff-10.png") So, you'll need to
add them as a 'customer' by clicking customers on the left menu
![Staff-11.png](Staff-11.png "Staff-11.png") Use the "Add Customer" to
add their info ![Staff-12.png](Staff-12.png "Staff-12.png") And they'll
show up in the customer list ![Staff-13.png](Staff-13.png
"Staff-13.png") Now go back to "Queues" and "Assigned to me" (aka return
to the item you were working) ![Staff-14.png](Staff-14.png
"Staff-14.png") (5) Now you can add the leader to the request (either
after adding them as a customer or they were already a customer)
![Staff-15.png](Staff-15.png "Staff-15.png") You'll need to repeat the
procedure of adding a second leader if the request is for Project or
Chapter funds and greater then $500. You do the exact same thing a
second time.

(6) Add a comment asking the leader(s) for an approval/denial of the
request ![Staff-18.png](Staff-18.png "Staff-18.png")
![Staff-19.png](Staff-19.png "Staff-19.png") (7) Since the leader(s) are
added and the comment notifies them of the need for an approval, change
the status to "Waiting for approval" by clicking "Emailed Leaders"
![Staff-20.png](Staff-20.png "Staff-20.png") Now that the status is
"Waiting for approval", you're done with the request until the leader(s)
approves the request.

###### After a leader(s) have approved the request

You will get notified via email when the approval/denial happens (and
any other updates to the request) ![Staff-22.png](Staff-22.png
"Staff-22.png") Using the email link or just logging into OSD, update
the request to approved ![Staff-24.png](Staff-24.png "Staff-24.png")
Once its updated to approved, assign the request to the Virtual
accounting team - look for "Reimbursement Team"
![Staff-25.png](Staff-25.png "Staff-25.png")
![Staff-26.png](Staff-26.png "Staff-26.png") You're now done with this
request. The Virtual accounting team will complete the request by paying
all approved requests assigned to them.

*Back to [Reimbursement Process
Details](Reimbursement_Process_Details "wikilink")*