*Back to [Reimbursement Process
Details](Reimbursement_Process_Details "wikilink")*

The process for community members submitting reimbursement requests is
as follows:

(1) Go to the [OWASP Service
Desk](https://owasporg.atlassian.net/servicedesk/customer/portals) (OSD)
and log in: ![Submitter-01.png](Submitter-01.png "Submitter-01.png")
![Submitter-02.png](Submitter-02.png "Submitter-02.png") **Note**: If
you've never been to OSD before, you'll have to [Sign up
first](OWASP_Service_Desk_Signup "wikilink")

(2) Select the correct reimbursement category/form - we'll use Chapter
reimbursement as an example here ![Submitter-03.png](Submitter-03.png
"Submitter-03.png") ![Submitter-04.png](Submitter-04.png
"Submitter-04.png") (3) Complete the form
![Submitter-05.png](Submitter-05.png "Submitter-05.png") Don't forget to
upload your receipt and any supporting documentation or files
![Submitter-06.png](Submitter-06.png "Submitter-06.png")
![Submitter-07.png](Submitter-07.png "Submitter-07.png") (4) Submission
is complete, you'll need to wait for an approval from the budget owner
![Submitter-08.png](Submitter-08.png "Submitter-08.png") Note: You'll
get an email from OSD letting you know it has your request
![Submitter-09.png](Submitter-09.png "Submitter-09.png") You can always
see any requests you've made and their status on OSD by going to "My
requests" ![Submitter-10.png](Submitter-10.png "Submitter-10.png")
![Submitter-11.png](Submitter-11.png "Submitter-11.png") After you've
submitted your request, you'll be updated as the status changes starting
with an email that an approval has been requested
![Submitter-12.png](Submitter-12.png "Submitter-12.png") Status changes
like "Waiting for Approval" ![Submitter-13.png](Submitter-13.png
"Submitter-13.png") And when the approver (budget owner) makes their
approve/deny comment ![Submitter-14.png](Submitter-14.png
"Submitter-14.png") and when its approved for payment
![Submitter-15.png](Submitter-15.png "Submitter-15.png") You **might**
be asked for additional information if needed for payment
![Submitter-16.png](Submitter-16.png "Submitter-16.png") If you are
asked, you can reply via logging into OSD
![Submitter-17.png](Submitter-17.png "Submitter-17.png") **OR** just
replying to that email - either way, your response is added to the
comment thread ![Submitter-18.png](Submitter-18.png "Submitter-18.png")
When the request is paid, you'll get details
![Submitter-19.png](Submitter-19.png "Submitter-19.png")

And notified that the status has been changed to Paid
![Submitter-20.png](Submitter-20.png "Submitter-20.png")

Every step of the way, we'll inform you of what's happening with your
request.

*Back to [Reimbursement Process
Details](Reimbursement_Process_Details "wikilink")*