I've been listening to lots of Computer Security presentations on my
iPod (MP3 files), and I've found them a great way to spend some of the 5
hours a week commuting time I have. I thought I'd share my opinion of
the ones I've found, and maybe some of you can let us know your opinions
of any security podcasts you know of. Most of these I found using iTunes
as the podcast aggregator, but I've included their direct links and
their own self description. I only included the ones you can subscribe
to, not single podcasts. Generally no one's background, experience or
job is described in the podcast. None of these are particularly about
web application security except MightySeek, but they can be interesting.
There are others explicitly about network or VOIP security that I have
not included. I've included the iPod display and iTunes description in
order to judge how easy it is to select the one you want on your iPod
and to manage them in your library, like remembering which ones you've
listened to and deleting them.

Security Wire Weekly

SearchSecurity.com's Security Wire Weekly audio download is a news
interview program, highlighting recent news stories with interviews from
top security experts.
<http://itknowledgeexchange.techtarget.com/security-wire-weekly/feed/>;
iPod display - 'Security Wire Weekly' and the date. The podcast covers
the spectrum from secure software development issues to encryption and
wireless security to compliance and PCI DSS; iTunes description -
eventually lists the topics after telling you it's the Security Wire
Weekly edition of some sort, the reporter, and their title.; sound
quality - good;

Security Now\!

TechTV's Leo Laporte and Steve Gibson take 20 to 30 minutes near the end
of each week to discuss important issues of personal computer security.
Sometimes we'll discuss something that just happened. Sometimes we'll
talk about long-standing problems, concerns, or solutions. Either way,
every week we endeavor to produce something interesting and important
for every personal computer user. <http://www.grc.com/SecurityNow.htm>;
JimW's Comments -This is the best of all. There is a single topic which
is well explained; every 4th podcast is listener Q+A. ; iPod display -
The podcast name which appears in the iPod window contains the topic and
episode \#; sound quality - very good; format - Host/tech speaker -
Steve Gibson does most of the talking with Leo asking useful questions
and providing summations.

PaulDotCom Security Weekly

<http://www.pauldotcom.com/security_weekly/> IT Security news, research,
vulnerability discussions, and interviews.; JimW comments - after 2 to 7
minutes discussing the hosts various personal events of the previous
week, the topics mentioned above are discussed, with frequent non-topic
asides. If you are familiar with the exploits, news, research etc.
already, you will understand the discussion and comments, but frequently
the situation, technology or procedures are not explained. ; iPod
display - 'PaulDotCom Security Weekly', episode, date.; iTunes
description - exactly the topics covered, up to episode 17. Descriptions
for episodes 18 and on are just advertising, except for when there is an
interview.; sound quality - good for the 2 main speakers, poor for
anyone else.; format - host/cohost (both very technical), various others
(also very technical).;

SploitCast

Welcome to SploitCast, the podcast for hackers, geeks, and the security
paranoid. JimW coments - early podcasts were technical dudes discussing
various computer security events, with frequent non topic asides. More
recent ones have more technical content and interviews.; iPod display -
sploitcast and episode \#; iTunes description - full topic description;
sound quality - good; <http://www.sploitcast.com/>;

SecurityCatalyst

The independent information security podcast and blog with leading edge
insights in an easy to understand format; JimW comment - very diverse -
technical; home user; enterprise level; homeland security. A few topics
are discussed and well covered.; iPod display - main topic or topics,
sometimes preceded by 'Security Cataltyst' and episode \#.; iTunes
description - very chatty long description about that show followed by
topic list - never got to the end of the topic list. ; sound quality -
good; Format - usually single speaker or interview;
<http://www.securitycatalyst.com/>;

crypto-gram Security Podcast

reading of Bruce Schneier's crypto-gram newsletter; JimW comment -
reading of Bruce Schneier's crypto-gram newsletter. The newsletter is
Bruce's comments on events of all kinds (political, technical,
scientific, computational), usually discussing some security aspect of
that event. Useful to hear security aspects (anonymity, authentication,
authorization, privacy, accountability, prevention, deterrence etc.)
applied to real world events.; format - reading of Bruce Schneier's
crypto-gram newsletter; iPod display -; iTunes description - each
description has the same first 100 characters, I never got out to the
whole description for any episode.; sound quality - good;
<http://crypto-gram.libsyn.com/>;

mightyseek

<http://www.mightyseek.com/>; Mighty Seek is primarily a podcast about
Web Application Security and Development. The show is put together by
Dan Kuykendall and whoever else he can get to contribute. ; JimW comment
- you get to listen to 60 seconds of the 1960's Mighty Mouse cartoon
show song at the start of each podcast; then a rambling presentation of
content not too well organized, basic application security topics.;
format - single speaker; sound quality - good; iPod display - good topic
description; iTunes description - even better topic description but so
long and chatty you can't see all of it unless you right click and
choose description.;

AdventuresInSecurity

<http://www.adventuresinsecurity.com/podcasts.html>; Weekly News and
Security Management Tip; JimW comment - more large company issue
oriented, very basic discussion of information security topics, standard
recommendations.; sound quality - too good; in the early shows the 's's
are piercing and there's been some periodic electronic chirping in the
background. Later show sound quality very good.; iPod display - episode
\# and topic.; iTunes description- good description of topics.; 14 to 50
minutes, can start with lots or little news before getting to the
'topic', sometimes interesting discussion of the news. Topic discussion
can last 5 to 20 minutes.;

CIO Strategy Center - Symantec

a daily editorial resource offering innovative insights and security
strategies for building an integrated, secure and resilient IT
infrastructure.; JimW comment - 6 to 12 minute interviews and single
speaker discussions about CIO level issues, - general platitudes ; sound
quality - good; iPod display - 'Podcast:' topic; iTunes description - ;

CSO

<http://www.csoonline.com/podcasts/index.html>; JimW comment - ; sound
quality - ; iPod display - ; iTunes description - ;

Security Podcasts - CIO

<http://www.cio.com/podcasts/index.html>; sometimes same as CSO; JimW
comment - ; sound quality - ; iPod display - ; iTunes description - ;

LiveAmmo Computer Security News

<http://liveammo.blogspot.com/> and
<http://www.liveammo.com/LiveAmmo_Podcast_Archives.php> JimW comment -
network forensics; sound quality - good; iPod display - 'Podcast:'
topic; iTunes description - very detailed;

Speaking of Security - the RSA Security Blog and Podcast.

<http://www.rsasecurity.com/blog/index.asp> 5 to 10 minutes of RSA
product and company news and occasional 3 to 4 minute interesting
discusstion of information security topic by RSA staff.; JimW comment -
mostly product stuff; sound quality - good; iPod display - Speaking of
Secuity podcast \#; iTunes description - good description of podcast
topics;

ITC:Security - IT Conversations on Security

<http://www.itconversations.com/rss.html> JimW comment - interesting
speakers; sound quality - good; iPod display -; iTunes description -;

Cyberspeak

Hosted by two former federal agents who investigated computer crime,
this is a technology Podcast covering Computer Security, Computer Crime
and Computer Forensics Topics.;
<http://feeds.feedburner.com/Cyberspeak>; JimW comment - discussions and
interviews on the stated topics; sound quality - very good; iPod display
-; iTunes description - good;

Defcon Conferences - Available from iTunes

Updates only come once a year, but they are great for filling up your
MP3 player with hours of good information.

<http://www.defcon.org/podcast/defcon-15-audio.rss>
<http://www.defcon.org/podcast/defcon-15-video.rss>

Blackhat Briefings - Available from iTunes

Updates only come once a year, but they are great for filling up your
MP3 player with hours of good information. I've found the blackhat
presentations to be more organized and consistent than the defcon
podcasts.

<https://www.blackhat.com/html/bh-media-archives/bh-multimedia-archives-index.html>