# Meeting Info

We ask all attendees to RSVP for meetings. Either join our Meetup group
and use the RSVP function or join the chapter's listserv and reply to
meeting announcements.
[OWASP RI on
Meetup.com](http://www.meetup.com/Providence-Web-Application-Security-Meetup-OWASP-RI/)
or
[ListServ](https://lists.owasp.org/mailman/listinfo/owasp-rhodeisland)
The listserv is "push-only" and will only be used for meeting
announcements. The membership list is never shared with anyone.

# Sponsor/Host

OWASP RI is generously sponsored by Upserve with both their office space
at 10 Dorrance St, 3rd Floor, Providence, RI as well as with
refreshments at meetings. We thank Upserve for their sponsorship of
OWASP RI

# Videos/Slides

All videos are on the [OWASP RI YouTube
Channel](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCD7buF7w8WuF3xfQPrkBiOw)

  - William Gamble, September 2016, Advanced Persistent Legal Threats
    [Video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=cH7UlgkfA7E)
  - McKenna Laverty, March 2016, Online Security for Kids
    [Slides](http://www.slideshare.net/plaverty24/online-security-for-kids)
    | Video Coming Soon
  - John Strand, February 2016, Talking Security in the Boardroom
    [Video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mD28Cc4kEUc)
  - Ben Brown, July 2015, On Defending Against Doxxing,
    [Video](http://www.irongeek.com/i.php?page=videos/converge2015/track106-on-defending-against-doxxing-benjamin-brown)
    (Video courtest of irongeek.com and Converge 2015)
  - Larry Cashdollar, March 2015, Mining Ruby Gems for Fun and No
    Profit, [Video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6ZBa_zcFLmc),
    [Slides](http://www.patricklaverty.com/rubygems.ppt)
  - Jake Fonseca, February 2015, Digital Forensics
    [Slides](http://patricklaverty.com/OWASP_2015.pptx)
  - Taryn Mandrell, September 2014, [Advanced Threat
    Protection](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=3toQQV8nDt4)
  - Patrick Laverty, August 2014, [How Hackers View Your Web
    Site](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gKfkdh6VA1E)
  - Ben Jackson, June 2014, [Running a non-attributable honeypot system
    via fly by night VPS
    providers](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LhOXf2HGp_g)

# Next Meeting

`'''May 12, 6:30 pm  - Single Sign-On Mechanisms and Federated Identity`

Steve Carmody is the project lead for the Internet2's Shibboleth
(http://www.internet2.edu/products-services/trust-identity/shibboleth/)
and an IT Architect at Brown University. Steve will speak on single sign
on mechanisms and the idea of federated identity. If you have ever
chosen to use your Google account, Facebook account or Twitter account
to log in to other services, you are familiar with the idea of federated
identity. Come hear more about the projects on May 12.

Please RSVP at
<http://www.meetup.com/Providence-Web-Application-Security-Meetup-OWASP-RI/>

Food and beverages will be provided by our host and sponsor,
[Upserve](https://upserve.com/)\!

## Location

Upserve (Formerly Swipely) 10 Dorrance St., 9th Floor Providence, RI

# Future Meetings

`'''June 9, 6:30 pm  - Topic and Speaker TBA`

# Past Meetings

`'''April 7, 6:30 pm  - The State of US Cybersecurity with US Congressman James Langevin`

We met with Congressman Langevin last year and it was a huge success so
we've asked him back. He will be on hand to talk about what is happening
with US Cybersecurity issues and take questions from the audience.

`'''March 24, 6:00 pm  - Online Security For Kids`

This meeting will be a little different. For one, the target audience
will be kids and their parents, and anyone else interested in online
security for children. Another thing making it different is we'll start
a half hour earlier, and we'll probably make the presentation only 30
minutes (at 6:00, instead of the usual 6:30) and then questions. The
last thing making this presentation different is that I will be
co-presenting with my favorite presenter in the history of OWASP RI
(with apologies to all other presenters) my own 10 year old daughter. So
please bring your kids to this session and you'll hear about computer
security for kids by a kid (and her dad). We hope you enjoy this one as
we are looking forward to presenting it for you.

`'''February 25, 6:30 pm  - How to Talk Security in the Board Room, by John Strand`

Communicating about security and secure technologies among peers uses a
common language, one we're often comfortable with. But when we need to
explain security to others who don't focus on it every day, we sometimes
need to find other ways to explain it. In this meeting, John will talk
about ways that you can explain security needs and priorities to your
C-level executives in ways that will help them to understand why it is
important and why funding needs should be prioritized.

Due to John being located in South Dakota, this presentation was live
streamed.

`'''November 3, 6:30 pm  - Account Checkers and Rewards Program Fraud with Kellen Kleinfelter`

We are excited to have Larry Pesce from Inguardians, SANS and Paul's
Security Weekly to talk to us about his experiences while performing
penetration testing. Larry has additional expertise in ethical hacking
of wireless devices, as he teaches the SANS SEC617 Wireless Ethical
Hacking course. Larry will give an overview of penetration testing as
well as give examples from his own experiences. You can also hear Larry
weekly on the Paul's Security Weekly podcast, for which Larry is a
co-creator and co-host.

`'''October 6, 6:30 pm  - Penetration Testing Overview and stories from the field, by Larry Pesce`

We are excited to have Larry Pesce from Inguardians, SANS and Paul's
Security Weekly to talk to us about his experiences while performing
penetration testing. Larry has additional expertise in ethical hacking
of wireless devices, as he teaches the SANS SEC617 Wireless Ethical
Hacking course. Larry will give an overview of penetration testing as
well as give examples from his own experiences. You can also hear Larry
weekly on the Paul's Security Weekly podcast, for which Larry is a
co-creator and co-host.

`'''September 15, 6:30 pm  - Briefings from Blackhat and Defcon 2015 – Hacking Cars, Rifles and Powerplants`

Exactly as the title indicates, stuff that Velu saw and learned about in
Las Vegas this year. Plus, we may also do an overview of Burp Suite and
Zed Attack Proxy

About the Speaker

Velu Jeganathan, CISSP, CISM,CEH working as a Senior Penetration Tester
for Voya Financial. Has more than 25 yrs of IT Experience and about 10
years in Information Security. My interests are in Mobile Security,
Vulnerability Management and Cryptography.

`'''August 18, 6:30 pm  - Access in Maliceland, by Gunnar Peterson.`

John Lambert observed attackers win becaue while defenders think in
lists, attackers think in graphs. Access control systems divide the
system a priori into secure and insecure states. But that’s only worth
the paper its printed on. A Attackers see the system as it is, for
attackers, the access control scheme is the beginning of the game not
the end. Determined attackers seek out access control models and then
find holes that they can leverage. Access control systems that purport
to protect the system are built on assumptions from which reality
diverges. Application security needs a new approach to access control-
adding feedback loops for risk based decisions, fine-grained, dynamic
access control.

Security is a business with a very long list of issues and requirements.
The spreadsheets are miles long. This makes it essential to find
reusable solution patterns that can address multiple problems.This
presentation looks at both medium term improvements and code examples to
improve access control decisions and overall security today

About the Speaker

Gunnar Peterson (@oneraindrop) focuses on security architecture
consulting and training. Experience includes Associate Editor for IEEE
Security & Privacy Journal, a Microsoft MVP for App security, an IANS
Research Faculty member, a Securosis Contributing Analyst, and a
Visiting Scientist at Carnegie Mellon Software Engineering Institute. He
maintains a popular information security blog at
<http://1raindrop.typepad.com>.

`'''July 29, 6:30 pm  - Defending Against Doxxing, by Ben Brown`

**Abstract and Why This Topic is Important:** Doxxing is the
Internet-based practice of researching and broadcasting personally
identifiable information about an individual. It is also a scourge on
our internet lives that can quickly boil over into the physical realm.
Often wielded as a weapon of hate or manipulation and a tactic for
intimidation doxxing easily leads to real-world threats of violence,
financial harm, sexual assault, career damage, or even murder. Examples
of these impacts can be seen surrounding the recent events of
'GamerGate' through the targeting of Anita Sarkeesian, Felicia Day, Tara
Long, and Brianna Wu. Doxxing also often leads to another tragic
outcome; that of targets for hate being misidentified leading to
unaffiliated individuals becoming the subjects of attack. Occurrences of
this can be found in such online sagas as Anonymous vs. Scientology, the
Amanda Todd case, and the incorrect fingering of Sunil Tripathi as the
Boston Bomber. Given the real world impacts of being doxxed what can we
do to protect ourselves, our friends, and our loved ones? In this talk I
will highlight common methods employed by doxxers as well as methods to
safeguard the information they seek. I will move from the easy wins and
low-hanging fruit, with an eye for practicality, to the more complex and
long-term defenses employed by professionals. While this is a pertinent
topic for everyone I believe it is especially important for those who's
livelihoods involve spending copious amounts of time interacting with
the internet. Our Doxxing attack surfaces are larger than those for
others.

**Bio:** Benjamin Brown currently works on systems safety, adversarial
resilience, and threat intelligence at Akamai Technologies. He has
experience in the non-profit, academic, and corporate worlds as well as
degrees in both Anthropology and International Studies. Research
interests include novel and side-channel attack vectors, radio systems,
the psychology and anthropology of information security, metacognitive
techniques, threat actor profiling, intelligence analysis, and thinking
about security as an ecology of complex systems.

`'''May 11, 6:30 pm  - The State of US CyberSecurity with US Congressman James Langevin. `

`'''April 15, 6:30 pm  - Threat Intelligence and OSINT with Stuart Gorton`

`'''March 18, 6:30 pm  - Mining Ruby Gem Vulnerabilities for Fun and No Profit, Larry (@_larry0) Cashdollar, Akamai Technologies`

`'''February 18, 6:30 pm Digital Forensics, Jacob Fonseca, Digital Forensics and Cyber Security Center at University of Rhode Island`

**Description:** Jacob Fonseca will present the field of Digital
Forensics - which is the application of forensics science to the
identification, acquisition and analysis of digital evidence such as
email, texts, digital documents, and web/social media activity. He will
also describe aspects of cyber security and its overlap with digital
forensics. He will outline the technical, legal and procedural issues in
handling digital evidence, and illustrate it with cases in the media and
cases from the RI Digital Forensics Center, which he directs. (the
Center web site with degree programs, research, case work, etc is
dfcsc.uri.edu).

**Speaker:** Jacob Fonseca is a digital forensic investigator and
security researcher at the Digital Forensics and Cyber Security Center.
He is an experienced network administrator and is responsible for
creating and maintaining the DFCSC forensic lab and network systems. Mr.
Fonseca specializes in applied computer science for research and
education. He routinely works with state agencies toward improving the
security posture of critical infrastructure in Rhode Island. He earned
his Masters in Computer Science from the University of Rhode Island and
holds several certifications in the areas of investigation and computer
security. [Slides](http://patricklaverty.com/OWASPProvidence2014.pptx)

`'''January 21, 6:30 pm - The Maturing Security Model, David Sherry, CISO Brown University`

`'''November 5, 6:30 pm - Web application firewalls as used in the enterprise, Ed Martin`

**Description:** Overview of Web Application Firewall concepts – We will
cover types of appliances, deployment methods and tuning principles
Examples of different types of attacks will be given, as well as basic
remediations

**Bio:** Web application firewall engineer, Dell Secureworks Former
Senior Security Analyst and SOC mentor for Secureworks SANS:
GSEC/GCIA/GWAPT ITILv3 Imperva IWSS certified

`'''October 15, 6:30 pm `

**Title:** Intro to Metasploit and Armitage

**Speaker:** Rob Kornmeyer

**Bio:** OSCP, Sec+, SPSE, A+ Executive Producer of Paul’s Security
Weekly and Stogie Geeks. An Infosec student with interests in pen
testing and embedded device hacking. Motto: Never Stop Learning.

**Description:** Learning about using Metasploit along with the Armitage
module

`'''September 17, 6:30 pm `

**Title:** Advanced Threat Protection

**Speaker:** Taryn Mandrell Security Technology Manager, Inno4LLC

**Description:** We will discuss the importance of OWASP top 10 and
well-known attacks (signature based) and how to additionally utilize
endpoint protection (i.e. Whitelisting, MDM, BYOD, SIEM). We'll aim to
educate on other services to protect from zero-day Malware...with a
focus on the holistic approach to reduce the impact and cost of
remediation in the event of data compromise, whether that be PCI, IP,
PII, PHI, and so forth.

Food and beverages will be provided by our host and sponsor,
[Swipely](http://www.swipely.com)\!

`'''August 13, 2014 6:30 pm `

**Title:** How a Hacker Views Your Web Site

**Description:** As developers, we look at a web site usually just one
way, how it should work and what it should do. However hackers look at
it differently, they try to figure out what else it can do. They poke
and prod at every possible vector looking for a single way in to
compromise a site. In this talk, we'll look at many of the possibilities
and different ways that attackers try to hack your site.

`'''July 16, 2014 6:30 pm `

**Title:** Point-of-Sale Malware

**Description:** This is a Point of Sale Malware presentation focusing
on breaches in the industry. This presentation uses the Target breach as
an example, and cautions against following in Target’s footsteps, as
well as outlining as a whole POS Malware and infection vectors most
commonly experienced.

**Speaker Bio:** I am Milandon Foley, I’ve worked for Johnson & Wales
University full time since I graduated in May of 2013, doing Point Of
Sale security and various Malware and technical related tasks. I also
work part-time for Dissect Cyber and have started doing various project
maintainer tasks along with developing scripts and tools for protecting
systems and networks. I have a BS in Network Engineering from JWU, but
in terms of Information Security I am mainly self-taught and driven by
the knowledge and information I learn from working these two jobs, as
well as from developing my own side projects. You can find most of what
I am working on at github.com/Theory5 and I am always open to connect
via LinkedIn\!

`'''June 11, 2014, 6:30 pm `

**Title:** Running a non-attributable honeypot system via fly by night
VPS providers

**Description:** Ben "[@innismir](https://www.twitter.com/innismir)"
Jackson will talk about cheap VPS providers and how they make great
homes for honeypots in which you can monitor the ankle biters that poke
at your network day in and day out.

**Speaker Bio:** Ben spends his time enjoying being a husband, dad, and
messing around with anything that has a button on it. He was the author
for "Asterisk Hacking" from Syngress, has spoken at various conferences,
and has appeared on various media outlets discussing security and
privacy. Ben strongly dislikes Thursdays and writing about himself in
the third person.

`'''May 7, 2014, 6:30 pm `

**Title:** XSSValidator

**Description:** xssValidator is a tool developed to automate the
testing and validation of Cross-Site Scripting (xss) vulnerabilities
within web applications. This tool leverages Burp Suite Pro's extension
API as well as PhantomJS, a headless, scriptable web browser.

**Speaker:** John Poulin is an application security consultant for
nVisium who specializes in web application security. He worked
previously as a web developer and software engineer that focused on
building multi-tier web applications. When he's not hacking on web apps,
John spends his time building tools to help him hack on web apps\! You
can find him on twitter: @forced_request

`'''April 16, 2014 6:30 pm `

**Title:** [OWASP Broken Web Applications (BWA)
Project](https://www.owasp.org/index.php/OWASP_Broken_Web_Applications_Project)

**Description:** The presentation will include a demonstration of some
of the realistic, vulnerable web applications within the OWASP BWA
project, including applications written in PERL, PHP and Rails.

The presentation will demonstrate the many benefits of such vulnerable
applications including:

  - Testing web application scanners (people)
  - Testing web application scanners (products)
  - Testing source code analysis tools
  - Examining code that allows the vulnerabilities
  - Testing web application firewalls
  - Reviewing evidence left by attacks

**Speaker:** Mordecai Kraushar is Director of Audit for CipherTechs, a
security solutions company based in New York City. He leads an OWASP
project called Vicnum, (it is part of the OWASPBWA project) which
demonstrates vulnerabilities such as cross-site scripting, SQL
injections and session management issues that are helpful to IT auditors
developing web security skills. This application has also been used in
multiple 'capture the flag' challenges including the Breaking Bad CTF at
AppSecUSA in New York this past November.

`'''March 19, 2014 6:30 pm`

Ben Brown, Akamai Technologies

Meta Cognition and Critical Thinking in Open Source Intelligence (OSINT)
or It's Turtles All the Way Down Mate

When gathering open source data and transforming it into actionable
intelligence, it is critical to recognize that humans are not objective
observers. Conscious and unconscious assumptions drive analysts' choices
about which data to analyze and how much importance to ascribe to each
resource. Furthermore, analysts' personal conceptual frameworks about
reality and how the world works can undermine the process of objectively
translating data into intelligence. These implicit assumptions,
otherwise known as cognitive biases, can lead to missed data, skewed
intelligence, illogical conclusions, and poor decision making. In this
presentation I will illustrate cognitive biases relevant to OSINT and
what can be done about them.

Speaker bio: Benjamin Brown currently works on systems safety,
adversarial resilience, and threat intelligence at Akamai Technologies.
He has experience in Non-profit, Academia, and the corporate world as
well as degrees in both Anthropology and International Studies. Research
interests include the psychology, anthropology, and sociology of
information security, threat actor profiling, and thinking about
security as an ecology of complex systems.

`'''February 12, 2014 5:45 pm`
`Preventing XSS with CSP`

Cross-Site Scripting is one of the most pervasive web application
security flaws, and one attackers frequently target for attack. While
the best line of defense for Cross-Site Scripting is defensively
programming with proper input validation and context-sensitive output
encoding, Content-Security Policy is quickly becoming a very effective
mitigation strategy to protect sites' visitors and to warn application
developers of potential attacks. This talk will cover content injection
(including Cross-Site Scripting) and how Content-Security Policy
mitigates many of the associated risks.

Will Stranathan is an application security professional in the
Charlotte, North Carolina area. He's been writing rotten code for 32
years, and has spent the last ten years breaking rotten applications,
analyzing rotten code, and writing rotten code which helps the world's
best programmers identify their own rotten code, and training developers
how to write code that's not so rotten.

`'''November 25, 2013 5:45 pm`

Unmasking DDoS Protected Web Sites

We will have Allison Nixon, fresh off her talk at Black Hat in Las Vegas
to show how to bypass DDoS-protected web sites. If you would like to
participate, please bring the following setup:
Laptop with a WiFi connection, Kali Linux installed with Perl, Wireshark
and ability to run as root. Please also have an email address where you
are able to view the mail headers. Lastly, it would be helpful if you do
have access to your own web server, though this one is not a requirement
to participate.

`'''September 23, 2013 5:45 pm`

JavaScript Verification: From Browsers to Pages

Modern web browsers implement a "private browsing" mode that is intended
to leave behind no traces of a user's browsing activity on their
computer. This feature is in direct tension with support for
\*extensions\*, which let users add third-party functionality into their
browser. I will discuss the scope of this problem, present our approach
to verifying extensions' compliance with private browsing mode, and
sketch our findings on several real, third-party extensions. I will then
briefly describe the toolkit underlying our approach, and end with a
sketch of a newer project, adapting this approach to the very
different-seeming problem of statically catching errors when using the
jQuery library.

`'''Monday, April 15, 2013 5:45 pm`

Evolving WAS - Taking remediation to the next level

It will be presentation and discussion around some of the things he has
found helpful in building and evolving security programs over the past
few years. It will cover everything around building a program from the
low level like scan engine choice, all the way to the high level needs
like senior management buy-in techniques to establish a sustainable
program. By Nick MacCarthy

`'''Monday March 4, 2013 5:45 pm`

Hands-on Hacking

If you remember our March 2012 meeting, we had Allison Nixon come and
show us how to use SQL injection to get access to a web database, as
well as how to prevent it. We learned how to think like a hacker. We'll
we're going to bring that back and do something similar. Except this
time, we're going to make it even more fun by turning it into a sort of
capture the flag. We'll stay educational and non-competitive, and we'll
aim to have multiple levels of flags to obtain.

We will look to have a lecture/lesson portion on SQL injection, then the
hands-on time. We will then try to repeat the process for Cross-Site
Scripting (XSS) where you can learn and play with the dangers of this
vector.

Please bring your own laptop to be involved with the lessons. As always,
we are demonstrating these techniques to help developers think like the
attackers and so we can better understand the vectors and better
understand how to protect our sites and code. OWASP, the organizers and
sponsors do not condone illegal activity. We also remind you to never
use these techniques against a site or network that you either do not
own or do not have explicit, written permission to perform them on. In
other words, don't blame us if you get arrested.

**`Wednesday``   ``November``   ``7,``   ``2012``   ``5:45``   ``pm`**

PCI in the Cloud

Interested in cloud security and compliance? Good architecture and
planning are the foundation for solid security, but infrastructure
providers have raised the level of abstraction and now companies of all
sizes are making use of cloud services to build high-security
environments with modest engineering effort. At Swipely, we process
credit cards in partnership with the world's largest Payment Processor
and the US’s largest bank. Learn how a startup can achieve Level 1 PCI
Compliance through isolation, technology selection, and aggressive
automation, all while promoting a security-conscious and agile
engineering culture.

Bright Fulton - \[Swipely |
[http://www.swipely.com\]/](http://www.swipely.com%5D/)
200 Dyer Street, Providence, RI

**`Tuesday``   ``October``   ``9,``   ``2012``   ``6:45``   ``pm`**

**The Evolution of the Information Security Management Function**
Information security has evolved as a discipline over the last two
decades, and managing a security program is no longer just administering
firewall rules. In this talk, the group will hear something away from
the bits and bytes, and hear how security management programs are moving
towards a holistic risk mitigation and reduction functions that may
include privacy and compliance.
David Sherry, CISO, Brown University

**`Tuesday``   ``September``   ``18,``   ``2012``   ``6:45``   ``pm`**

There is No Patch For Human Stupidity
Darren will come and show us all the fun and foibles that come with the
confidence game, also known as social engineering. Learn how to look out
for people just trying to get information from you and steal all your
secrets. Outsmart the smart people by just saying no.
Darren Wigley, NWN Corporation

**`Tuesday``   ``August``   ``21,``   ``2012``   ``6:45``   ``pm`**

**Finding All The Ninjas in the Forrest: Web Application Testing
Strategies Revisited**
Have you ever wondered what you might miss if an organization had over
800 web applications? How do you know where all your web applications
exist? What if your targets built in traps for you to fall into?
Finding, discovering, enumerating and testing for web application
vulnerabilities is a tedious process. To top it all off, the remediation
is rarely as easy as applying a patch or updating a configuration
setting. Learn some tips and tricks to conduct more effective web
application tests and help with remediation efforts. Paul Asadoorian -
PaulDotCom (http://www.pauldotcom.com)

**`Tuesday``   ``July``   ``17,``   ``2012``   ``6:45``   ``pm`**

Practical Malware Analysis 101 Brandon Levene - Dell SecureWorks This
will be an introduction to modern malware as the primary vector of
intrusions. Detection of malware is crucial, and equally important is
being able to differentiate between true and false positives. During
this talk I will introduce techniques used by the industry to identify
potentially malicious software without disassembly or debugging.
**Location:** Brown University Continuing Education 200 Dyer Street
Providence, RI
[1](https://maps.google.com/maps?q=200+Dyer+Street,+Providence+ri&ie=UTF-8&hq=&hnear=0x89e44515a1d257ab:0xb73c2a45e92559d9,200+Dyer+St,+Providence,+RI+02903&gl=us&ei=FMrHT5jnPObN6QGlz7XRDw&oi=geocode_result&ved=0CAsQ8gEwAA%7Cmap)

**`Monday``   ``June``   ``4,``   ``2012``   ``6:45``   ``pm`**

Our next meeting is Monday, June 4, 6:45 pm at Swipely's headquarters in
Providence's Jewelry District. The address is 39 Pike St in Providence
(Google maps shows the church, but that's not it). The building also
faces Benefit Street, across from Al Forno and has a billboard on the
roof, near the Shell station. Come in through the side entrance.

You are all among the first to hear the great news about the Providence
Web Application Security Group. As of April 25, we were granted chapter
status with the Open Web Application Security Project (OWASP) for Rhode
Island. This is a great development and you can find out more about
OWASP at <http://www.owasp.org>

But if you don't want to surf the site to learn more, no worries, just
come to the next meeting on Monday, June 4 to hear Tom Brennan from the
OWASP International Board of Directors (via videoconference) tell us all
about OWASP and everything they do and everything that is available to
you. One of the best parts about OWASP is everything they do is FREE\!
They have free security tools, some free books, some free training, free
videos, free meetings to attend and it's free to participate and
contribute to new projects.

Also at the meeting, in keeping with the OWASP Security Blitz we will
also have Paul McAndrew from Dell's Secureworks group to talk about
Cross Site Scripting (XSS). Paul is a Security Analyst at Dell
SecureWorks responsible for analysis and event management on thousands
of IDS/IPS/WAF devices deployed globally. This broad view of the
Internet gives insight into the current threat landscape and new threats
as they are emerging. Paul has been a security hobbyist for over 10
years, with a specific interest in network and web application security.

[Category:OWASP Chapter](Category:OWASP_Chapter "wikilink")
[Category:United States](Category:United_States "wikilink")