  - Rochester Security Summit 2017

Date: Oct 19-20, 2017

OWASP Track (day 2):

  - Keynote: David Kennedy
  - Beyond the Top 10 (John N. King, Mary Beth King)
  - How Billion Dollar Enterprises Manage Application Security at Scale
    (Altaz Valani)
  - Almost Intractable Application Security Problems… and Solutions
    (Danny Harris)

**Joint OWASP-ISSA Rochester Chapter Meeting**
July 13, 2017
6:00pm
Nixon Peabody
1300 Clinton Square, 14th Floor
**How Billion Dollar Enterprises Manage Application Security at Scale**

Security Compass recently completed a research study by surveying
companies across multiple industries with the goal of discovering how
large, complex organizations address application security at scale. The
majority of respondents surveyed were multinational organizations who
reported annual earnings greater than $1 billion USD. Through this new
research study, we have gleamed novel insights on how large
organizations manage application security at scale. Through this
presentation, we will reveal aggregated insights, industry trends, and
best practices that illuminate how organizations are addressing
application security at scale, so that you may apply and compare these
learnings to the state of application security at your own organization.

**Speaker: Altaz Valani**

Altaz Valani is a Research Director at Security Compass responsible for
managing the overall research vision and team. Prior to joining Security
Compass, Altaz was a Senior Research Director in the Application
Development Practice at Info-Tech Research Group providing IT managers,
directors, and senior managers with guidance and analysis around
application development – including Agile, Cloud, Mobile, and the
overall SDLC. His other past positions include Senior Manager at KPMG,
and various entrepreneurial and intrapreneurial positions where he
worked side by side with senior-level stakeholders at blue chip clients
to drive business value through software development.

Altaz enjoys coding, teaching, and the challenge of learning. He
received his BEng in Computer Engineering from McMaster University, and
his MBA from the University of Western Ontario. AltazMAS\!

**Parking**

Free parking is available underneath the building. Please bring your
ticket with you for validation.

Entrance for parking:
<https://www.google.com/maps/dir/43.1558628,-77.605952/@43.1556506,-77.6077177,17.12z>

**OWASP Rochester Chapter Event** March 1, 2017
6:00pm to 7:15pm
Nixon Peabody
1300 Clinton Square, 13th Floor
**Introduction to Application Security and OWASP Top 10 Risks (part 2 of
2)**

Want to learn more about the security challenges developers face? This
session will provide easy to understand, demo-driven examples of four
common application vulnerabilities. You’ll see the attack in action,
learn how the attack works, learn how it can be prevented, and watch a
successful defensive counter.

This session will be covering the following components of the OWASP Top
10:

  - A1 – Injection
  - A3 – Cross-Site Scripting (XSS)
  - A8 – Cross-Site Request Forgery (CSRF)
  - A10 – Unvalidated Redirects and Forwards

The source code used in the demo is freely available and uses a Java/JEE
stack.

**Slides:** <http://www.johnnking.com/slides/owasp2017/>

**Source code:** <https://github.com/JohnNKing/appsecdemo>

**Speaker: John King**

John is an experienced developer with a special focus on application
security, enterprise software, and Agile product development. He’s a
Senior Web Programmer / Analyst for RIT, an Officer of the Rochester
Chapters of ISSA and OWASP, and has been a contributor to the Rochester
Security Summit for the past four years.

**OWASP Rochester Chapter Event** November 18, 2016
Noon to 1:15pm
RIT, GCCIS
GOL-2130 (Air Gap Lab)

**Introduction to Application Security and OWASP Top 10 Risks (part 1 of
2)**

Application Security is really hot and very much in demand. Find out why
it’s so hot and get an in-depth introduction to application security and
6 of the OWASP Top 10 Application Risks. Ralph will discuss the how-to
of the exploits and defenses for:

  - A2 – Broken Authentication and Session Management
  - A4 – Insecure Direct Object References
  - A5 – Security Misconfiguration
  - A6 – Sensitive Data Exposure
  - A7 – Missing Function Level Access Control
  - A9 – Using Components with Known Vulnerabilities

<!-- end list -->

  - Slides
    [Media:Durkee_OWASP_Top_10_2016_11_v11.pdf](Media:Durkee_OWASP_Top_10_2016_11_v11.pdf "wikilink")

**Speaker: Ralph Durkee**

Ralph is the principal security consultant and owner of Durkee
Consulting, Inc since 1996. Ralph started the OWASP Rochester, NY
chapter in 2004 and served as founding officer and president for the
Rochester ISSA chapter and the annual Rochester Security Summit. He
routinely performs network and application penetration tests, software
security assessments and secure software development consultations for
clients. His expertise in advanced penetration testing, incident
handling, secure software development and secure Internet and web
applications is based on over 30 years of hands-on technical experience.
He has developed and taught a wide variety of professional security
seminars including custom web application security training, and SANS
SEC401 & SEC504 – Hacker Techniques and Incident Handling and CISSP
bootcamp courses since 2004. Ralph also regularly consults on the
development and implementation of a wide variety of security standards
such as web application security, database encryption, Windows, and
Linux security. Ralph also has done security consulting for compliance
with the Payment Card Industry Data Security Standard, and holds the
following certifications CISSP, C |EH, CRISC, GSEC, GCIH, GSNA, GCIA,
GPEN and GXPN.

  -
    Rochester Security Summit 2016

Date: Oct 5-6, 2016

OWASP Track (day 2):

  - Keynote: Jeremiah Grossman
  - Introduction to Application Security and OWASP Top 10 Risks (Ralph
    Durkee & John King)
  - Common Developer Crypto Mistakes (Kevin W. Wall)
  - \#DevOpsSec – Killing the Buzz? (Jason Ross)
  - Web Application Firewall Evaluation with DevOps, SDLC and the New
    OWASP Core Rule Set (Chaim Sanders)

<!-- end list -->

  -
    OWASP Rochester Social Event (8/11/16, MacGregors')

Please join the Rochester OWASP chapter for a social event August 11th
at MacGregors' in Henrietta.

Come out and discuss your favorite topics in application security\!
Appetizers will be provided.

When: Thursday, August 11 at 5:30pm

Where: MacGregors' Grill and Tap Room (300 Jefferson Rd, Rochester, NY)

  -
    Understanding and Preventing Cross-Site Request Forgery Attacks

Date: Feb 10th, 12 Noon - 1:30pm Location: Univ of Rochester College
Town – Building 3

  - Speaker: John King
    Slides <http://www.johnnking.com/slides/csrf/>

Ranked \#8 on the OWASP Top 10, “Cross-Site Request Forgery (CSRF) is an
attack that forces an end user to execute unwanted actions on a web
application in which they're currently authenticated.” (OWASP Wiki)

CSRF vulnerabilities are commonplace and easily missed by developers who
are unfamiliar with this class of attack. Unlike injection
vulnerabilities, they do not become apparent during testing unless you
know exactly what to look for. This session will provide an introduction
to CSRF vulnerabilities, and will include an attack demonstration and
practical examples that prevent this type of vulnerability.

John is a web application developer with 10+ years of experience, with a
focus on product management, user-experience, and application security.
He has recently joined RIT ITS as a Senior Web Programmer / Analyst. He
also serves as an officer of the Rochester chapters of OWASP and ISSA,
and helps plan the annual Rochester Security Summit.

  - NodeJS Security

Date: Nov 6th 12 noon - 1:30pm Location: Univ of Rochester College Town
– Building 3

  - Speaker: Jason Ross

NodeJS has become an industry standard for deploying agile web
applications. This talk provides an introduction to NodeJS – what it is,
what it isn’t, how to get it running, and common elements that get
deployed with Node (such as Grunt and Bower). With a firm understanding
of the platform, we'll then examine common problems and security risks
associated with NodeJS applications, as well as what options are
currently available to secure and audit NodeJS projects.

Jason Ross is a Senior Consultant specializing in web application
testing, Android application and device testing, and incident response
management. He has provided network and application vulnerability
assessment & penetration testing to a wide range of clients, including
US Government agencies and Fortune 100 companies. He has also developed
and delivered training tools and programs to major clients on topics
such as advanced mobile penetration testing and forensic techniques.

Jason has a background in network incident response, forensic analysis
and Unix & Windows platform engineering. He is an independent security
researcher, and has spoken at numerous security conferences, including
BlackHat DC, BSides Las Vegas, DEF CON Skytalks, and various regional
conferences. Jason is also an active participant in the anti-malware
community, and works with several highly vetted trust groups to track,
monitor, and mitigate malicious Internet activity.

  - Introduction to OWASP Application Security – Building and Breaking
    Applications

Date: Sept 18th 12 noon - 1:30pm

  - Speaker: Ralph Durkee, Principal Security Consultant, CISSP, C

|EH, GSEC, GCIH, GSNA, GCIA, GPEN

Application Security continues to be the most challenging and demanding
area for securing our information. Even large organizations like Google
and Microsoft that are well funded and have a strong commitment to
security, have difficulty developing secure software. Too often, when a
vulnerability is found and a software patch is provided, the initial
patch is soon found to be lacking and is still vulnerable. The initial
patch for the recent Android StageFright vulnerability is a prime
example. So yes, writing secure software is a serious challenge, but it
can be done. Knowing how to build secure software and how to break
insecure software can be both fun and profitable. There is and will
continue to be a growing demand for developers and application
penetration testers that “get it”. We'll discuss specific examples from
the OWASP Top 10 and the OWASP secure coding principles about how things
can go very wrong, and what we can do to keep the bad guys out.

  - OWASP Top 10 -
    <https://www.owasp.org/index.php/Top10#OWASP_Top_10_for_2013>
  - OWASP Secure Coding Principles -
    <https://www.owasp.org/index.php/Secure_Coding_Principles>

Presentation Slides:
<https://www.owasp.org/images/e/ec/Durkee_OWASP_2015_09_AppSec.pdf>

  - Application Security for Agile and Continuous Delivery

Date: May 12th, 2015 6pm

  - Speaker: Douglass Wilson, IBM Distinguished Engineer

<!-- end list -->

  - CTO for Vulnerability, Risk and Compliance Products IBM Security
    Systems IBU
  - Free food and drink, provide by our meeting Sponsor, IBM

<!-- end list -->

  - Location: Mulconry's Irish Pub, 17 Liftbridge Lane East, Fairport,
    NY 14450

<!-- end list -->

  - Hands-on Ethical Hacking: Preventing and Exploiting Stack Overflow
    Vulnerabilities

Date: Apr 15, 2015 5:30pm

  - Speaker: Ralph Durkee

<!-- end list -->

  - We'll have a hands-on Ethical Hacking training session on preventing
    and exploiting stack overflow vulnerabilities.
  - In the session we'll discuss how to find a buffer overflow
    vulnerability and then develop a customized exploit for a stack
    based buffer overflow.
  - We'll also discuss and test mitigating techniques such as address
    randomization, stack protections mechanisms, non-executable stacks
    and of course secure programming to prevent buffer overflows.

<!-- end list -->

  - Rochester Security Summit 2014

Date: Oct 7-8, 2014 8am - 4:30pm Topics:

  - Top Ten Web Defenses (Jim Manico)
  - Ethical Hacking: Preventing and Writing Exploits for Buffer
    Overflows (Ralph Durkee)
  - Docker and Linux Containers for Infosec Professionals (Matt Kaar)
  - Building a Software Security Program (Kuai Hinojosa)

Location: Hyatt Regency, Rochester, NY 14604

  - June 20 2014 Meeting

Topic: Security Development Lifecycle Speaker: Larry Kovnat (CISSP,
CISM) Location: Nixon Peabody, 1300 Clinton Square, Rochester, NY 14604
Speaker: Larry Kovnat (CISSP, CISM) Location: Nixon Peabody, 1300
Clinton Square, Rochester, NY 14604

  - April Meeting 2013

Topic: Ethical Hacking as a Professional Penetration Testing Technique
Speaker: Ralph Durkee, Durkee Consulting
<https://www.owasp.org/images/f/fc/Ralph_Durkee_Pen_Test_v24L_handout.pdf>

  -
    May 2012

Mercury Networks Security Summit Tpoic: Mozilla's Content Security
Policy Speaker: Lou Leone
<https://www.owasp.org/images/9/95/2012_CSP.pptx>

  -
    May 2011 Meeting

Michael Coates webinar on Attack-Aware Applications.
<https://owasp.webex.com/owasp/ldr.php?AT=pb&SP=MC&rID=87764002&rKey=14191b8f8c73dabc>

  -
    May 5, 2011

MercuryFest Speakers: Ralph Durkee, Andrea Cogliati, Duane Peifer Topic:
SSL Man-in-the-Middle and Spoofing Attacks

  -
    March 2011 Meeting

Topic: Pastebin Scrapping
Speaker: Silas Cutler, Global Crossing, Security Architect

  -
    January 2011 Meeting

Topic: State of OWASP and the State of Web Application Security
Speaker: Ralph Durkee, Durkee Consulting

  -
    August Meeting 2010

Topic: Man in the Middle Attacks: SSL Spoofing
Speaker: Duane Peifer, UberGuard Information Security and Ralph Durkee,
Durkee Consulting

  -
    June Meeting 2010

Topic: Client Side Exploits 101
Speaker: JP Bourget, BS IT, RIT 2005; MS Computer Security and
Information Assurance, RIT 2008; CISSP; MCSE, CSS

  -
    May Meeting 2010

Topic: New Techniques in Application Intrusion Detection
Speaker: Al Huizenga, Director of Product Management, Mykonos Software,
Inc.

  -
    February Meeting 2010

Ralph Durkee presented a recap of the recent AppSec conference in DC.
Andrea Cogliati gave a talk on Identity Federation and Claim-based
Security.

  - Oct 29-30 2008 - Rochester Security Summit 2008

<!-- end list -->

  -
    The Rochester OWASP chapter in partnership with other Rochester
    institutions is organizing the third annual Rochester Security
    Summit Oct 29-30 during National Cyber Security Awareness Month.
    This year we'll have a full day dedicated to application security
    and we are are working to bring to Rochester the best national
    acclaimed speakers.

Visit [Rochester Security Summit
Site](http://www.RochesterSecurity.org/) for details.