# Government Organization

<div style="width:48%; float:right;">

![SAMM-Roadmap-GO.png](SAMM-Roadmap-GO.png "SAMM-Roadmap-GO.png")

</div>

<div style="width:48%; float:left; padding-right:10px;">

## Rationale

A Government Organization involves the core business function of being a
state-affiliated organization that builds software to support public
sector projects.

Initially, Governance Practices are established, generally to get an
idea of the overall compliance burden for the organization in context of
the concrete roadmap for improvement.

Because of risks of public exposure and the quantity of legacy code
generally in place, early emphasis is given to Security Testing within
the Verification Practices and later the more involved Code Review or
Design Review Practices are developed.

Similar emphasis is placed on the Construction and Deployment Practices.
This helps establish the organizationâ€™s management of vulnerabilities
and moves toward bolstering the security posture of the operating
environment. At the same time, proactive security activities under
Construction are built up to help prevent new issues in software under
development.

## Additional Considerations

### Outsourced Development

For organizations using external development resources, restrictions on
code access typically leads to prioritization of Security Requirements
activities instead of Code Review activities. Additionally, advancing
Threat Assessment in earlier phases would allow the organization to
better clarify security needs to the outsourced developers. Since
expertise on software configuration will generally be strongest within
the outsourced group, contracts should be constructed to account for the
activities related to Operational Enablement.

### Web Services Platforms

For organizations building web services platforms, design errors can
carry additional risks and be more costly to mitigate. Therefore,
activities from Threat Assessment, Security Requirements, and Secure
Architecture should be placed in earlier phases of the roadmap.

### Regulatory Compliance

For organizations under heavy regulations that affect business
processes, the build-out of the Policy & Compliance Practice should be
adjusted to accommodate external drivers. Likewise, organizations under
a lighter compliance load should take the opportunity to push back
build-out of that Practice in favor of others.

</div>

<div style="float:left; width:100%;">




\----

-----

### Additional Resources

</div>

__NOTOC__ __NOEDITSECTION__