<div style="float:left; width:65%;">

</div>

<div style="float:right; width:30%;">

[<http://www.opensamm.org/downloads/BackButton.png>](http://www.owasp.org/index.php/SAMM_-_Deployment)

</div>

<div style="width:100%; float:left;">

<div style="width:30%; float:right; padding-top:50px; padding-left:10px;">

#### Results

  - Lightweight process in place to handle high-priority vulnerabilities
    or incidents
  - Framework for stakeholder notification and reporting of events with
    security impact
  - High-level due diligence for handling security issues

#### Success Metrics

  - \>50% of the organization briefed on closest security point of
    contact in past 6 months
  - \>1 meeting of security response team and points of contact in past
    12 months

#### Costs

  - Ongoing variable project overhead from staff filling the security
    point of contact roles
  - Identification of appropriate security response team

#### Personnel

  - Security Auditors (1 day/yr)
  - Architects (1 day/yr)
  - Managers (1 day/yr)
  - Business Owners (1 day/yr)

#### Related Levels

  - Education & Guidance - 2
  - Strategy & Metrics - 3

</div>

<div style="float:left; width:65%;">

## Activities

### A. Identify point of contact for security issues

For each division within the organization or for each project team,
establish a point of contact to serve as a communications hub for
security information. While generally this responsibility will not claim
much time from the individuals, the purpose of having a predetermined
point of contact is to add structure and governance for vulnerability
management.

Examples of incidents that might cause the utilization include receipt
of a vulnerability report from an external entity, compromise or other
security failure of software in the field, internal discovery of
high-risk vulnerabilities, etc. In case of an event, the closest contact
would step in as an extra resource and advisor to the affected project
team(s) to provide technical guidance and brief other stakeholders on
progress of mitigation efforts.

The point of contact should be chosen from security-savvy technical or
management staff with a breadth of knowledge over the software projects
in the organization. A list of these assigned security points of contact
should be centrally maintained and updated at least every six months.
Additionally, publishing and advertising this list allows staff within
the organization to request help and work directly with one another on
security problems.

### B. Create informal security response team(s)

From the list of individuals assigned responsibility as a security point
of contact or from dedicated security personnel, select a small group to
serve as a centralized technical security response team. The
responsibilities of the team will include directly taking ownership of
security incidents or vulnerability reports and being responsible for
triage, mitigation, and reporting to stakeholders.

Given their responsibility when tapped, members of the security response
team are also responsible for executive briefings and upward
communication during an incident. It is likely that most of the time,
the security response team would not be operating in this capacity,
though they must be flexible enough to be able to respond quickly or a
smooth process must exist for deferring and incident to another team
member.

The response team should hold a meeting at least annually to brief
security points of contact on the response process and high-level
expectations for security-related reporting from project teams.

</div>

</div>

<div style="float:left; width:100%;">




\----

-----

### Additional Resources

[:Category:SAMM-VM-1](:Category:SAMM-VM-1 "wikilink")

</div>

__NOTOC__ __NOEDITSECTION__

[Category:SAMM-VM-1](Category:SAMM-VM-1 "wikilink")