<div style="float:left; width:65%;">

<http://www.opensamm.org/badges/small/V.png>

</div>

<div style="float:right; width:30%;">

[<http://www.opensamm.org/downloads/BackButton.png>](http://www.owasp.org/index.php/SAMM#tab=Browse_Online)

</div>

<div style="width:100%; float:left;">



\===Design Review=== The Design Review (DR) Practice is focused on
assessment of software design and architecture for security-related
problems. This allows an organization to detect architecture-level
issues early in software development and thereby avoid potentially large
costs from refactoring later due to security concerns.

Beginning with lightweight activities to build understanding of the
security-relevant details about an architecture, an organization evolves
toward more formal inspection methods that verify completeness in
provision of security mechanisms. At the organization level, design
review services are built and offered to stakeholders.

In a sophisticated form, provision of this Practice involves detailed,
data-level inspection of designs and enforcement of baseline
expectations for conducting design assessments and reviewing findings
before releases are accepted.

### Code Review

The Code Review (CR) Practice is focused on inspection of software at
the source code level in order to find security vulnerabilities.
Code-level vulnerabilities are generally simple to understand
conceptually, but even informed developers can easily make mistakes that
leave software open to potential compromise.

To begin, an organization uses lightweight checklists and for
efficiency, only inspects the most critical software modules. However,
as an organization evolves it uses automation technology to dramatically
improve coverage and efficacy of code review activities.

Sophisticated provision of this Practice involves deeper integration of
code review into the development process to enable project teams to find
problems earlier. This also enables organizations to better audit and
set expectations for code review findings before releases can be made.

### Security Testing

The Security Testing (ST) Practice is focused on inspection of software
in the runtime environment in order to find security problems. These
testing activities bolster the assurance case for software by checking
it in the same context in which it is expected to run, thus making
visible operational misconfigurations or errors in business logic that
are difficult to otherwise find.

Starting with penetration testing and high-level test cases based on the
functionality of software, an organization evolves toward usage of
security testing automation to cover the wide variety of test cases that
might demonstrate a vulnerability in the system.

In an advanced form, provision of this Practice involves customization
of testing automation to build a battery of security tests covering
application-specific concerns in detail. With additional visibility at
the organization level, security testing enables organizations to set
minimum expectations for security testing results before a project
release is accepted.

</div>