<div style="float:left; width:65%;">

<http://www.opensamm.org/badges/small/C.png>

</div>

<div style="float:right; width:30%;">

[<http://www.opensamm.org/downloads/BackButton.png>](http://www.owasp.org/index.php/SAMM#tab=Browse_Online)

</div>

<div style="width:100%; float:left;">



\===Threat Assessment=== The Threat Assessment (TA) Practice is centered
on identification and understanding the project-level risks based on the
functionality of the software being developed and characteristics of the
runtime environment. From details about threats and likely attacks
against each project, the organization as a whole operates more
effectively through better decisions about prioritization of initiatives
for security. Additionally, decisions for risk acceptance are more
informed, therefore better aligned to the business.

By starting with simple threat models and building to more detailed
methods of threat analysis and weighting, an organization improves over
time. Ultimately, a sophisticated organization would maintain this
information in a way that is tightly coupled to the compensating factors
and pass-through risks from external entities. This provides greater
breadth of understanding for potential downstream impacts from security
issues while keeping a close watch on the organizationâ€™s current
performance against known threats.

### Security Requirements

The Security Requirements (SR) Practice is focused on proactively
specifying the expected behavior of software with respect to security.
Through addition of analysis activities at the project level, security
requirements are initially gathered based on the high-level business
purpose of the software. As an organization advances, more advanced
techniques are used such as access control specifications to discover
new security requirements that may not have been initially obvious to
development.

In a sophisticated form, provision of this Practice also entails pushing
the security requirements of the organization into its relationships
with suppliers and then auditing projects to ensure all are adhering to
expectations with regard to specification of security requirements.

### Secure Architecture

The Secure Architecture (SA) Practice is focused on proactive steps for
an organization to design and build secure software by default. By
enhancing the software design process with reusable services and
components, the overall security risk from software development can be
dramatically reduced.

Beginning from simple recommendations about software frameworks and
explicit consideration of secure design principles, an organization
evolves toward consistently using design patterns for security
functionality. Also, activities encourage project teams to increased
utilization of centralized security services and infrastructure.

As an organization evolves over time, sophisticated provision of this
Practice entails organizations building reference platforms to cover the
generic types of software they build. These serve as frameworks upon
which developers can build custom software with less risk of
vulnerabilities.

</div>