<div style="float:left; width:65%;">

<http://www.opensamm.org/badges/small/G.png>

</div>

<div style="float:right; width:30%;">

[<http://www.opensamm.org/downloads/BackButton.png>](http://www.owasp.org/index.php/SAMM#tab=Browse_Online)

</div>

<div style="width:100%; float:left;">



\===Strategy & Metrics=== The Strategy & Metrics (SM) Practice is
focused on establishing the framework within an organization for a
software security assurance program. This is the most fundamental step
in defining security goals in a way that’s both measurable and aligned
with the organization’s real business risk.

By starting with lightweight risk profiles, an organization grows into
more advanced risk classification schemes for application and data
assets over time. With additional insight on relative risk measures, an
organization can tune its project-level security goals and develop
granular roadmaps to make the security program more efficient.

At the more advanced levels within this Practice, an organization draws
upon many data sources, both internal and external, to collect metrics
and qualitative feedback on the security program. This allows fine
tuning of cost outlay versus the realized benefit at the program level.

### Policy & Compliance

The Policy & Compliance (PC) Practice is focused on understanding and
meeting external legal and regulatory requirements while also driving
internal security standards to ensure compliance in a way that’s aligned
with the business purpose of the organization.

A driving theme for improvement within this Practice is focus on
project-level audits that gather information about the organization’s
behavior in order to check that expectations are being met. By
introducing routine audits that start out lightweight and grow in depth
over time, organizational change is achieved iteratively.

In a sophisticated form, provision of this Practice entails
organization-wide understanding of both internal standards and external
compliance drivers while also maintaining low-latency checkpoints with
project teams to ensure no project is operating outside expectations
without visibility.

### Education & Guidance

The Education & Guidance (EG) Practice is focused on arming personnel
involved in the software life-cycle with knowledge and resources to
design, develop, and deploy secure software. With improved access to
information, project teams will be better able to proactively identify
and mitigate the specific security risks that apply to their
organization.

One major theme for improvement across the Objectives is providing
training for employees, either through instructor-led sessions or
computer-based modules. As an organization progresses, a broad base of
training is built by starting with developers and moving to other roles
throughout the organization, culminating with the addition of role-based
certification to ensure comprehension of the material.

In addition to training, this Practice also requires pulling
security-relevant information into guidelines that serve as reference
information to staff. This builds a foundation for establishing a
baseline expectation for security practices in your organization, and
later allows for incremental improvement once usage of the guidelines
has been adopted.

</div>