<div style="float:left; width:65%;">

</div>

<div style="float:right; width:30%;">

[<http://www.opensamm.org/downloads/BackButton.png>](http://www.owasp.org/index.php/SAMM_-_Deployment)

</div>

<div style="width:100%; float:left;">

<div style="width:30%; float:right; padding-top:50px; padding-left:10px;">

#### Results

  - Reinforced operational environment with layered checks for security
  - Established and measured goals for operational maintenance and
    performance
  - Reduced likelihood of successful attack via flaws in external
    dependencies

#### Add’l Success Metrics

  - \>80% of stakeholders briefed on relevant operations protection
    tools in past 6 months
  - \>75% of projects passing infrastructure audits in past 6 months

#### Add’l Costs

  - Research and selection of operations protection solutions
  - Buildout or license of operations protections tools
  - Ongoing operations overhead from maintenance of protection tools
  - Ongoing project overhead from infrastructure-related audits

#### Add’l Personnel

  - Business Owners (1 day/yr)
  - Managers (1-2 days/yr)
  - Support/Operators (3-4 days)

#### Related Levels

  - Policy & Compliance - 2

</div>

<div style="float:left; width:65%;">

## Activities

### A. Identify and deploy relevant operations protection tools

In order to build a better assurance case for software in its operating
environment, additional tools can be used to enhance the security
posture of the overall system. Operational environments can vary
dramatically, thus the appropriateness of given protection technology
should be considered in the project context.

Commonly used protections tools include web application firewalls, XML
security gateways for web services, anti-tamper and obfuscation packages
for client/embedded systems, network intrusion detection/prevention
systems for legacy infrastructure, forensic log aggregation tools,
host-based integrity verification tools, etc.

Based on the organization and project-specific knowledge, technical
stakeholders should work with support and operations staff to identify
and recommend selected operations protection tools to business
stakeholders. If deemed a valuable investment in terms of risk-reduction
versus cost of implementation, stakeholders should agree on plans for a
pilot, widespread rollout, and ongoing maintenance.

### B. Expand audit program for environment configuration

When conducting routine project-level audits, expand the review to
include inspection of artifacts related to hardening the operating
environment. Beyond an up-to-date specification for the operational
environment, audits should inspect current patch status and historic
data since the previous audit. By tapping into monitoring tools, audits
can also verify key factors about application configuration management
and historic changes. Audits should also inspect the usage of operations
protections tools against those available for the software’s
architecture type.

Audits for infrastructure can occur at any point after a project’s
initial release and deployment, but should occur at least every 6
months. For legacy systems or projects without active development,
infrastructure audits should still be conducted and reviewed by business
stakeholders. An exception process should be created to allow
special-case projects to continue operations, but with an explicitly
assigned timeframe for mitigation of findings. Exceptions should be
limited to no more that 20% of all projects.

</div>

</div>

<div style="float:left; width:100%;">




\----

-----

### Additional Resources

[:Category:SAMM-EH-3](:Category:SAMM-EH-3 "wikilink")

</div>

__NOTOC__ __NOEDITSECTION__

[Category:SAMM-EH-3](Category:SAMM-EH-3 "wikilink")