<div style="float:left; width:65%;">

</div>

<div style="float:right; width:30%;">

[<http://www.opensamm.org/downloads/BackButton.png>](http://www.owasp.org/index.php/SAMM_-_Deployment)

</div>

<div style="width:100%; float:left;">

<div style="width:30%; float:right; padding-top:50px; padding-left:10px;">

#### Results

  - Detailed feedback for organizational improvement after each incident
  - Rough cost estimation from vulnerabilities and compromises
  - Stakeholders better able to make tradeoff decisions based on
    historic incident trends

#### Add’l Success Metrics

  - \>80% of incidents documented with root causes and further
    recommendations in past 6 months
  - \>80% of incidents collated for metrics in the past 6 months

#### Add’l Costs

  - Ongoing organization overhead from conducting deeper research and
    analysis of incidents
  - Ongoing organization overhead from collection and review of incident
    metrics

#### Add’l Personnel

  - Security Auditors (3 days/yr)
  - Managers (2 days/yr)
  - Business Owners (2 days/yr)

#### Related Levels

  - Strategy & Metrics - 3

</div>

<div style="float:left; width:65%;">

## Activities

### A. Conduct root cause analysis for incidents

Though potentially time consuming, the incident response process should
be augmented to include additional analysis to identify the key,
underlying security failures. These root causes can be technical
problems such as code-level vulnerabilities, configuration errors, etc.
or they can be people/process problems such as social engineering,
failure to follow procedures, etc.

Once a root cause is identified for an incident, it should be used as a
tool to find other potential weaknesses in the organization where an
analogous incident could have occurred. For each identified weakness
additional recommendations for proactive mitigations should be
communicated as part of closing out the original incident response
effort.

Any recommendations based on root cause analysis should be reviewed by
management and relevant business stakeholders in order to either
schedule mitigation activities or note the accepted risks.

### B. Collect per-incident metrics

By having a centralized process to handle all compromise and
high-priority vulnerability reports, an organization is enabled to take
measurements of trends over time to determine impact and efficiency of
initiatives for security assurance.

Records of past incidents should be stored and reviewed at least every 6
months. Group similar incidents and simply tally the overall count for
each type of problem. Additional measurements to take from the incidents
include frequency of software projects affected by incidents, system
downtime and cost from loss of use, human resources taken in handling
and cleanup of the incident, estimates of long-term costs such as
regulatory fines or brand damage, etc. For root causes that were
technical problems in nature, it is also helpful to identify what kind
of proactive, review, or operational practice might have detected it
earlier or lessened the damage.

This information is concrete feedback into the program planning process
since it represents the real security impact that the organization has
felt over time.

</div>

</div>

<div style="float:left; width:100%;">




\----

-----

### Additional Resources

[:Category:SAMM-VM-3](:Category:SAMM-VM-3 "wikilink")

</div>

__NOTOC__ __NOEDITSECTION__

[Category:SAMM-VM-3](Category:SAMM-VM-3 "wikilink")