<div style="float:left; width:65%;">

</div>

<div style="float:right; width:30%;">

[<http://www.opensamm.org/downloads/BackButton.png>](http://www.owasp.org/index.php/SAMM_-_Verification)

</div>

<div style="width:100%; float:left;">

<div style="width:30%; float:right; padding-top:50px; padding-left:10px;">

#### Results

  - Deeper and more consistent verification of software functionality
    for security
  - Development teams enabled to self-check and correct problems before
    release
  - Stakeholders better aware of open vulnerabilities when making risk
    acceptance decisions

#### Add’l Success Metrics

  - \>50% of projects with security testing and stakeholder sign-off in
    past 6 months
  - \>80% of projects with access to automated security testing results
    in past 1 month

#### Add’l Costs

  - Research and selection of automated security testing solution
  - Initial cost and maintenance of automation integration
  - Ongoing project overhead from automated security testing and
    mitigation

#### Add’l Personnel

  - Developers (1 days/yr)
  - Architects (1 day/yr)
  - Managers (1-2 days/yr)
  - Security Auditors (2 days/yr)
  - QA Testers (3-4 days/yr)

#### Related Levels

</div>

<div style="float:left; width:65%;">

## Activities

### A. Utilize automated security testing tools

In order to test for security issues, a potentially large number of
input cases must be checked against each software interface, which can
make effective security testing using manual test case implementation
and execution unwieldy. Thus, automated security test tools should be
used to automatically test software, resulting in more efficient
security testing and higher quality results.

Both commercial and open-source products are available and should be
reviewed for appropriateness for the organization. Selecting a a
suitable tool is based on several factors including robustness and
accuracy of built-in security test cases, efficacy at testing
architecture types important to organization, customization to change or
add test cases, quality and usability of findings to the development
organization, etc..

Utilize input from security-savvy technical staff as well as development
and quality assurance staff in the selection process, and review overall
results with stakeholders.

### B. Integrate security testing into development process

With tools to run automated security tests, projects within the
organization should routinely run security tests and review results
during development. In order to make this scalable with low overhead,
security testing tools should be configured to automatically run on a
routine basis, e.g. nightly or weekly, and findings should be inspected
as they occur.

Conducting security tests as early as the requirements or design phases
can be beneficial. While traditionally, used for functional test cases,
this type of test-driven development approach involves identifying and
running relevant security test cases early in the development cycle,
usually during design. With the automatic execution of security test
cases, projects enter the implementation phase with a number of failing
tests for the non-existent functionality. Implementation is complete
when all the tests pass. This provides a clear, upfront goal for
developers early in the development cycle, thus lowering risk of release
delays due to security concerns or forced acceptance of risk in order to
meet project deadlines.

For each project release, results from automated and manual security
tests should be presented to management and business stakeholders for
review. If there are unaddressed findings that remain as accepted risks
for the release, stakeholders and development managers should work
together to establish a concrete timeframe for addressing them.

</div>

</div>

<div style="float:left; width:100%;">




\----

-----

### Additional Resources

[:Category:SAMM-ST-2](:Category:SAMM-ST-2 "wikilink")

</div>

__NOTOC__ __NOEDITSECTION__

[Category:SAMM-ST-2](Category:SAMM-ST-2 "wikilink")