<div style="float:left; width:65%;">

</div>

<div style="float:right; width:30%;">

[<http://www.opensamm.org/downloads/BackButton.png>](http://www.owasp.org/index.php/SAMM_-_Deployment)

</div>

<div style="width:100%; float:left;">

<div style="width:30%; float:right; padding-top:50px; padding-left:10px;">

#### Results

  - Communications plan for dealing with vulnerability reports from
    third-parties
  - Clear process for releasing security patches to software operators
  - Formal process for tracking, handling, and internally communicating
    about incidents

#### Add’l Success Metrics

  - \>80% of project teams briefed on incident response process in past
    6 months
  - \>80% of stakeholders briefed on security issue disclosures in past
    6 months

#### Add’l Costs

  - Ongoing organization overhead from incident response process

#### Add’l Personnel

  - Security Auditors (3-5 days/yr)
  - Managers (1-2 days/yr)
  - Business Owners (1-2 days/yr)
  - Support/Operators (1-2 days/yr)

#### Related Levels

</div>

<div style="float:left; width:65%;">

## Activities

### A. Establish consistent incident response process

Extending from the informal security response team, explicitly document
the organization’s incident response process as well as the procedures
that team members are expected to follow. Additionally, each member of
the security response team must be trained on this material at least
annually.

There are several tenets to sound incident response process and they
include initial triage to prevent additional damage, change management
and patch application, managing project personnel and others involved in
the incident, forensic evidence collection and preservation, limiting
communication about the incident to stakeholders, well-defined reporting
to stakeholders and/or communications trees, etc.

With development teams, the security responders should work together to
conduct the technical analysis to verify facts and assumptions about
each incident or vulnerability report. Likewise, when project teams
detect an incident or high-risk vulnerability, they should follow an
internal process that puts them in contact with a member of the security
response team.

### B. Adopt a security issue disclosure process

For most organizations, it is undesirable to let news of a security
problem become public, but there are several important ways in which
internal-to-external communications on security issues should be
fulfilled.

The first and most common is through creation and deployment of security
patches for the software produced by the organization. Generally, if all
software projects are only used internally, then this becomes less
critical, but for all contexts where the software is being operated by
parties external to the organization, a patch release process must
exist. It should provide for several factors including change management
and regression testing prior to patch release, announcement to
operators/users with assigned criticality category for the patch, sparse
technical details so that an exploit cannot be directly derived, etc.

Another avenue for external communications is with third parties that
report security vulnerabilities in an organization’s software. By
adopting and externally posting the expected process with timeframes for
response, vulnerability reporters are encouraged to follow responsible
disclosure practices.

Lastly, many states and countries legally require external
communications for incidents involving data theft of personally
identifiable information and other sensitive data type. Should this type
of incident occur, the security response team should work with managers
and business stakeholders to determine appropriate next-steps.

</div>

</div>

<div style="float:left; width:100%;">




\----

-----

### Additional Resources

[:Category:SAMM-VM-2](:Category:SAMM-VM-2 "wikilink")

</div>

__NOTOC__ __NOEDITSECTION__

[Category:SAMM-VM-2](Category:SAMM-VM-2 "wikilink")