# Independent Software Vendor

<div style="width:48%; float:right;">

![SAMM-Roadmap-ISV.png](SAMM-Roadmap-ISV.png "SAMM-Roadmap-ISV.png")

</div>

<div style="width:48%; float:left; padding-right:10px;">

## Rationale

An Independent Software Vendor involves the core business function of
building and selling software components and applications.

Initial drivers to limit common vulnerabilities affecting customers and
users leads to early concentration on Code Review and Security Testing
activities.

Shifting toward more proactive prevention of security errors in product
specification, an organization adds activities for Security Requirements
over time.

Also, to minimize the impact from any discovered security issues, the
organization ramps up Vulnerability Management activities over time.

As the organization matures, knowledge transfer activities from
Operational Enablement are added to better inform customers and users
about secure operation of the software.

## Additional Considerations

### Outsourced Development

For organizations using external development resources, restrictions on
code access typically leads to prioritization of Security Requirements
activities instead of Code Review activities. Additionally, advancing
Threat Assessment in earlier phases would allow the organization to
better clarify security needs to the outsourced developers. Since
expertise on software configuration will generally be strongest within
the outsourced group, contracts should be constructed to account for the
activities related to Operational Enablement.

### Internet-Connected Applications

Organizations building applications that use online resources have
additional risks from the core internet-facing infrastructure that hosts
the internet-facing systems. To account for this risk, organizations
should add activities from Environment Hardening to their roadmaps.

### Drivers and Embedded Development

For organizations building low-level drivers or software for embedded
systems, security vulnerabilities in software design can be more
damaging and costly to repair. Therefore, roadmaps should be modified to
emphasize Secure Architecture and Design Review activities in earlier
phases.

### Organizations Grown by Acquisition

In an organization grown by acquisition, there can often be several
project teams following different development models with varying
degrees of security-related activities incorporated. An organization
such as this may require a separate roadmap for each division or project
team to account for varying starting points as well as project-specific
concerns if a variety of software types are being developed.

</div>

<div style="float:left; width:100%;">




\----

-----

### Additional Resources

</div>

__NOTOC__ __NOEDITSECTION__