<div style="float:left; width:65%;">

</div>

<div style="float:right; width:30%;">

[<http://www.opensamm.org/downloads/BackButton.png>](http://www.owasp.org/index.php/SAMM_-_Construction)

</div>

<div style="width:100%; float:left;">

<div style="width:30%; float:right; padding-top:50px; padding-left:10px;">

#### Results

  - Formally set baseline for security expectations from external code
  - Centralized information on security effort undertaken by each
    project team
  - Ability to align resources to projects based on application risk and
    desired security requirements

#### Add’l Success Metrics

  - \>80% of projects passing security requirements audit in past 6
    months
  - \>80% of vendor agreements analyzed for contractual security
    requirements in past 12 months

#### Add’l Costs

  - Increased cost from outsourced development from additional security
    requirements
  - Ongoing project overhead from release gates for security
    requirements

#### Add’l Personnel

  - Security Auditor (2 days/yr)
  - Managers (2 days/yr)
  - Business Owners (1 day/yr)

#### Related Levels

  - Threat Assessment - 3
  - Policy & Compliance - 2

</div>

<div style="float:left; width:65%;">

## Activities

### A. Build security requirements into supplier agreements

Beyond the kinds of security requirements already identified by previous
analysis, additional security benefits can be derived from third-party
agreements. Typically, requirements and perhaps high-level design will
be developed internally while detailed design and implementation is
often left up to suppliers.

Based on the specific division of labor for each externally developed
component, identify specific security activities and technical
assessment criteria to add to the vendor contracts. Commonly, this is a
set of activities from the Design Review, Code Review, and Security
Testing Practices.

Modifications of agreement language should be handled on a case-by-case
basis with each supplier since adding additional requirements will
generally mean an increase in cost. The cost of each potential security
activity should be balanced against the benefit of the activity as per
the usage of the component or system being considered.

### B. Expand audit program for security requirements

Incorporate checks for completeness of security requirements into
routine project audits. Since this can be difficult to gauge without
project-specific knowledge, the audit should focus on checking project
artifacts such as requirements or design documentation for evidence that
the proper types of analysis were conducted.

Particularly, each functional requirement should be annotated with
security requirements based on business drivers as well as expected
abuse scenarios. The overall project requirements should contain a list
of requirements generated from best-practices in guidelines and
standards. Additionally, there should be a clear list of unfulfilled
security requirements and an estimated timeline for their provision in
future releases.

This audit should be performed during every development iteration,
ideally toward the end of the requirements process, but it must be
performed before a release can be made.

</div>

</div>

<div style="float:left; width:100%;">




\----

-----

### Additional Resources

[:Category:SAMM-SR-3](:Category:SAMM-SR-3 "wikilink")

</div>

__NOTOC__ __NOEDITSECTION__

[Category:SAMM-SR-3](Category:SAMM-SR-3 "wikilink")