<div style="float:left; width:65%;">

<http://www.opensamm.org/badges/small/D.png>

</div>

<div style="float:right; width:30%;">

[<http://www.opensamm.org/downloads/BackButton.png>](http://www.owasp.org/index.php/SAMM#tab=Browse_Online)

</div>

<div style="width:100%; float:left;">



\===Vulnerability Management=== The Vulnerability Management (VM)
Practice is focused on the processes within an organization with respect
to handling vulnerability reports and operational incidents. By having
these processes in place, an organization’s projects will have
consistent expectations and increased efficiency for handling these
events, rather than chaotic and uninformed responses.

Starting from lightweight assignment of roles in the event of an
incident, an organization grows into a more formal incident response
process that ensures visibility and tracking on issues that occur.
Communications are also improved to improve overall understanding of the
processes.

In an advanced form, vulnerability management involves thorough
dissecting of incidents and vulnerability reports to collect detailed
metrics and other root-cause information to feedback into the
organization’s downstream behavior.

### Environment Hardening

The Environment Hardening (EH) Practice is focused on building assurance
for the runtime environment that hosts the organization’s software.
Since secure operation of an application can be deteriorated by problems
in external components, hardening this underlying infrastructure
directly improves the overall security posture of the software.

By starting with simple tracking and distributing of information about
the operating environment to keep development teams better informed, an
organization evolves to scalable methods for managing deployment of
security patches and instrumenting the operating environment with
early-warning detectors for potential security issues before damage is
done.

As an organization advances, the operating environment is further
reviewed and hardened by deployment of protection tools to add layers of
defenses and safety nets to limit damage in case any vulnerabilities are
exploited.

### Operational Enablement

The Operational Enablement (OE) Practice is focused on gathering
security critical information from the project teams building software
and communicating it to the users and operators of the software. Without
this information, even the most securely designed software carries undue
risks since important security characteristics and choices will not be
known at a deployment site.

Starting from lightweight documentation to capture the most impactful
details for users and operators, an organization evolves toward building
complete operational security guides that are delivered with each
release.

In an advanced form, operational enablement also entails
organization-level checks against individual project teams to ensure
that information is being captured and shared according to expectations.

</div>