# Financial Services Organization

<div style="width:48%; float:right;">

![SAMM-Roadmap-FSO.png](SAMM-Roadmap-FSO.png "SAMM-Roadmap-FSO.png")

</div>

<div style="width:48%; float:left; padding-right:10px;">

## Rationale

A Financial Services Organization involves the core business function of
building systems to support financial transactions and processing. In
general, this implies a greater concentration of internal and back-end
systems that interface with disparate external data providers.

Initially, effort is focused on improving the Practices related to
Governance since these are critical services that set the baseline for
the assurance program and help meet compliance requirements for the
organization.

Since building secure and reliable software proactively is an overall
goal, Practices within Construction are started early on and ramped up
sharply as the program matures.

Verification activities are also ramped up smoothly over the course of
the roadmap to handle legacy systems without creating unrealistic
expectations. Additionally, this helps ensure enough cycles are spent
building out more proactive Practices.

Since a financial services organization often operates the software they
build, focus is given to the Practices within Deployment during the
middle of the roadmap after some initial Governance is in place but
before heavy focus is given to the proactive Construction Practices.

## Additional Considerations

### Outsourced Development

For organizations using external development resources, restrictions on
code access typically leads to prioritization of Security Requirements
activities instead of Code Review activities. Additionally, advancing
Threat Assessment in earlier phases would allow the organization to
better clarify security needs to the outsourced developers. Since
expertise on software configuration will generally be strongest within
the outsourced group, contracts should be constructed to account for the
activities related to Operational Enablement.

### Web Services Platforms

For organizations building web services platforms, design errors can
carry additional risks and be more costly to mitigate. Therefore,
activities from Threat Assessment, Security Requirements, and Secure
Architecture should be placed in earlier phases of the roadmap.

### Organizations Grown by Acquisition

In an organization grown by acquisition, there can often be several
project teams following different development models with varying
degrees of security-related activities incorporated. An organization
such as this may require a separate roadmap for each division or project
team to account for varying starting points as well as project-specific
concerns if a variety of software types are being developed.

</div>

<div style="float:left; width:100%;">




\----

-----

### Additional Resources

</div>

__NOTOC__ __NOEDITSECTION__