## Local News

`Please see `<https://www.meetup.com/OWASP-San-Antonio/>` for the most up to date chapter meeting schedule `

### **OWASP San Antonio - November 9, 2018 @ 11:30am**

Join us for the November 2018 OWASP San Antonio meeting\!

We will have an interesting talk covering strategies and benefits of
application tracing\!

**Title:**

Tracing your system for fun and profit

**Abstract:**

How many of us go in every day knowing the ins and outs of our
application but not fully understanding how interacts within the greater
system flow? How often do we get called up at night from a frantic
developer three dependencies away from our application yelling about a
response that they did not expect due to a bug fix we put in a few weeks
earlier? As developers, that happens more often than we care to admit.
Having something that shows an entire system workflow is monumental. On
top of that, security professionals would also benefit from
understanding how different parts of the system interact with each
other.

There have been many ways to solve this problem (design documents,
architecture designs, workflow system documents, etc.) but most uses
require manual updates and dedicated resources that know the entire
system flow to understand what to update. This is not (usually)
scalable.

Tracing cross-boundary systems looks to help solve these issues. In this
talk, we’ll talk about one way of tracing a system end-to-end
(OpenTracing) and will talk about benefits to security professionals,
look at implementation details, talk about other competing products in
this space, and next steps in the ecosystem. The goal for this talk is
for the attendees to leave with a rudimentary understanding of system
tracing and potential benefits and drawbacks

**Speaker:** Dimitry Ushakov

**Bio:**

Dimitry Ushakov is a Quality Engineer at Rackspace. When not dealing
with impostor syndrome from working with geniuses every day, he works on
making operators' and developers' lives easier with test automation,
continuous integration/delivery management, and other testing industry
buzzwords.

**Location:** Denim Group Offices: 1354 N Loop 1604 E Suite 110, San
Antonio, TX 78232

### **OWASP San Antonio - October 5, 2018 @ 11:30am**

Join us for the October 2018 OWASP San Antonio meeting where we will
have a talk covering the latest in DDoS attack tools and services\!

**Title:**

Weapons of Mass Disruption

**Abstract:**

We now live in a world where individuals or groups of individuals hold
the same destructive power that only nation states once held. For as
little as a couple of dollars an hour, fortune 500 companies and even
nation states have been wiped off the Internet. The emergence of
professional DDoS services is changing the threat landscape of the
Internet once again. We'll take a look at DDoS tools and services and
what we can do to combat them.

**Speaker:** Roman Lara

**Bio:**

Roman Lara is a Senior Engineer on Rackspace’s specialized DDoS Team and
has been a Racker in various roles since 2009. He is responsible for
driving the design, build, and maintenance of Rackspace's DDoS
Mitigation infrastructure and services. Roman is a high-energy, hands-on
leader who’s knowledge and experience of threat trends help develop and
create powerful mitigation strategies through Fanatical Support. He
earned a degree in Business from the University of Texas in San Antonio.

**Location:** Denim Group Offices: 1354 N Loop 1604 E Suite 110, San
Antonio, TX 78232

The slide link:
<https://www.slideshare.net/michaelxin2015/weapons-of-mass-disruption-by-roman-lara-for-owasp-san-antonio-chapter-meetup>

### **OWASP San Antonio - June 29, 2018 @ 11:30am**

Join us for the June 2018 OWASP San Antonio meeting where we will have a
talk covering how to evaluate threats to IoT devices and their related
systems\!

**Title:**

Threat Modeling for IoT Systems

**Abstract:**

The Internet of Things (IoT) is an exciting and emerging area of
technology allowing individuals and businesses to make radical changes
to how they live their lives and conduct commerce. The challenge with
this trend is that IoT devices are just computers with sensors running
applications. Because IoT devices interact with our personal lives the
proliferation of these devices exposes an unprecedented amount of
personal sensitive data to significant risk. In addition, IoT security
is not only about the code running on the device. These IoT devices are
connected to systems that include supporting web services as well as
other client applications that allow for management and reporting.

A critical step to understanding the security of any system is building
a threat model. This helps to enumerate the components of the system as
well as the paths that data takes as it flows through the system.
Combining this information with an understanding of trust boundaries
helps provide system designers with critical information to mitigate
systemic risks to the technology and architecture. This presentation
looks at how Threat Modeling can be applied to IoT systems to help build
more security systems during the design process, as well as how to use
Threat Modeling when testing the security of IoT systems.

**Speaker:** Dan Cornell

**Bio:**

A globally recognized application security expert, Dan Cornell holds
over 15 years of experience architecting, developing and securing
web-based software systems. As the Chief Technology Officer and a
Principal at Denim Group, Ltd., he leads the technology team to help
Fortune 500 companies and government organizations integrate security
throughout the development process. He is also the original creator of
ThreadFix, Denim Group's industry leading application vulnerability
management platform.

**Location:** Denim Group Offices: 1354 N Loop 1604 E Suite 110, San
Antonio, TX 78232

### **OWASP San Antonio - March 30, 2018 @ 11:30am**

Join us for the March 2018 OWASP San Antonio meeting\!

We will have a talk covering methods and techniques used when attacking
authentication in web apps.

**Title:**

Attacking Authentication in Web Applications Abstract:

Broken authentication is an ongoing issue, identified in the OWASP Top
10 2013 and 2017 (A2 in both). While broken authentication can span
multiple topics, this presentation focuses mainly on attacking single
factor authentication using usernames and passwords. Methods and
techniques will be discussed to perform reconnaissance, username
enumeration, account lockout bypass, and various password attacks
against web applications. Speaker: Jake Miller

**Bio:**

Jake is a penetration tester for Blue Canopy (Jacobs Engineering Group),
primarily focusing on web application security. Prior to penetration
testing, he was a Security Controls Assessor, a SOC analyst, and a Navy
Submariner. He blogs about security on https://laconicwolf.com, writes a
fair amount of Python and PowerShell code
on https://github.com/laconicwolf, and occasionally tweets
(@laconicwolf). Aside from security and coding, he enjoys spending time
with his family and participating in ultra-running and obstacle races.

**Location:** Denim Group Offices: 1354 N Loop 1604 E Suite 110, San
Antonio, TX 78232

### **OWASP San Antonio - February 23, 2018 @ 11:30am**

Join us for the February 2018 OWASP San Antonio meeting\!

We will have a talk covering the complexities of secrets management and
how one enterprise met the challenge​.

**Title**: Hashicorp Vault in the Enterprise​

**Abstract**:

As established enterprises move to embrace automation, securing the
secrets that are required for applications to run presents challenges.
How can automation be introduced to legacy application deployment
models? What capabilities are needed to support modern application
architectures? This presentation will review some of the discoveries
made while researching these challenges from an enterprise perspective
and describe at a high level how HashiCorp Vault can be a way to address
them.

**Speaker**: Mike Thurmond

**Bio**:

Mike Thurmond is an Information Security Architect at H-E-B. Mike has
15+ years of experience developing, deploying and managing security
tools and practices in large enterprises. His experience includes
developing and managing authentication systems, developing customized
security services, developing and running compliance programs, and
integrating security into an agile development SDLC.

**Location:** Denim Group Offices: 1354 N Loop 1604 E Suite 110, San
Antonio, TX 78232

### **OWASP San Antonio - January 26, 2018 @ 11:30am**

Join us for the January 2018 OWASP San Antonio meeting\!

We will have a great talk about heap-related attacks and prevention
methods​.

Speaker: Tongping Liu

Bio:

Tongping Liu is an Assistant Professor at the University of Texas at San
Antonio. He got his Ph.D. from the University of Massachusetts Amherst
in 2014. His research spans runtime systems, operating systems,
programming languages, compiler, and distributed systems. His primary
research goal is to practically improve the performance, reliability and
security of parallel software. His work appeared in most prestigious
system conferences, such as SOSP, OSDI, EuroSys, and CCS. He has been
awarded 2015 Google Faculty Research Award and Mozilla Research Grant.

Title:

​FreeGuard: A Faster Secure Heap Allocator​

Abstract:

In spite of years of improvements to software security, heap-related
attacks still remain a severe threat. One reason is that many existing
memory allocators fall short in a variety of aspects. For instance,
performance-oriented allocators are designed with very limited
countermeasures against attacks, but secure allocators generally suffer
from significant performance overhead, e.g., running up to 10x slower.

This ​talk will introduce FreeGuard, a secure memory allocator that
prevents or reduces a wide range of heap-related security attacks, such
as heap overflows, heap over-reads, use-after-frees, as well as double
and invalid frees. FreeGuard has similar performance to the default
Linux allocator, with less than 2% overhead on average, but provides
significant improvement to security guarantees.

@Denim Group Offices 1354 N Loop 1604 E Suite 110 San Antonio, TX 78232

### **OWASP San Antonio - November 17, 2017 @ 11:30am**

Join us for the November 2017 OWASP San Antonio meeting\!

We will have a great talk about optimizing AppSec programs with
instrumentation and sensors.

Speaker: Girish Nair

Bio: Girish Nair has been a software developer for more than two
decades. He has special interest in web related technologies and
application security. He has a Master’s degree in computer science, and
is a CISSP. He currently works for Contrast Security, where he
evangelizes their technology.

Title: Using Instrumentation and Sensors to drive Optimization in your
Application Security Program

Abstract: In our physical world, we have instrumentation all around us.
Clocks tell us time, kitchen ovens tell us temperature, cars tell us
speed and fuel level, and even have onboard health diagnostics. At our
homes, we have security alerts when someone trespasses our property or
opens a door. However, in the world of software, we have very little
visibility into what is going on inside the software. Our presenters
will describe how instrumentation can be used to enable your software
applications to both detect vulnerabilities and block attacks.
Furthermore, they will demonstrate the insights offered by using
instrumentation and why this approach can offer unique insights to your
security program.

@Denim Group Offices 1354 N Loop 1604 E Suite 110 San Antonio, TX 78232

### **OWASP San Antonio - October 27, 2017 @ 11:30am**

### Join us for the October 2017 OWASP San Antonio meeting\!

We will have a talk about DNS Exfiltration Techniques and Methods.

Speaker: Nolan Berry

Bio: Nolan has been working at Rackspace for close to 5 years focusing
on linux and has a strong passion for security. He is on the DNS
Engineering team and has spoken at various conferences and places about
DNS exfiltration and botnet control structures.

Title: DNS Exfiltration Techniques and Methods

Abstract: This presentation will show various methods of DNS
exfiltration to move data out of networks and into networks with varying
levels of detectability and talk about why DNS presents a monitoring and
security issue to modern systems engineers looking to secure their
infrastructure. We will discuss how to detect, but also how to execute
this from a red team.

@Denim Group 1354 N Loop 1604 E Suite 110 San Antonio, TX 78232

### **OWASP San Antonio - September 29, 2017 @ 11:30am**

Join us for the September 2017 OWASP San Antonio meeting\!

We will have a talk about how billion dollar enterprises manage
application security at scale.

Speaker: Brandon Triance-Haldane

Bio: Brandon Triance-Haldane is a Solution Architect at Security
Compass; he has been delivering high quality solutions to his clients
for more than six years. Brandon holds a bachelor's degree in English
literature as well as an advanced diploma in Computer Security &
Investigations. In his spare time, Brandon likes making music, writing
code, and following the Toronto Blue Jays.

Title: How Billion Dollar Enterprises Manage Application Security at
Scale

Abstract: Security Compass recently completed a comprehensive research
study by surveying companies across multiple industries with the goal of
discovering how large, complex organizations address application
security at scale. The majority of respondents surveyed were
multinational organizations who reported annual earnings greater than $1
billion USD. Through this new research study, we have gleamed novel
insights on how large organizations manage application security at
scale. Through this presentation, we will reveal aggregated insights,
industry trends, and best practices that illuminate how organizations
are addressing application security at scale, so that you may apply and
compare these learnings to the state of application security at your own
organization.

@Denim Group Offices 1354 N Loop 1604 E Suite 110 San Antonio, TX 78232

**OWASP San Antonio - August 25, 2017 @ 11:30am**

Join us for the August 2017 OWASP San Antonio meeting\!

@Denim Group Offices 1354 N Loop 1604 E Suite 110 San Antonio, TX 78232

We will have a talk about Serverless Security\!

Speaker: Geva Solomonovich, COO Snyk

Title: Serverless Security: What’s Left To Protect?

Abstract: Serverless means handing off server management to the cloud
platforms – along with their security risks. With the “pros” ensuring
our servers are patched, what’s left for application owners to protect?
As it turns out, quite a lot. This talk discusses the aspects of
security serverless doesn’t solve, the problems it could make worse, and
the tools and practices you can use to keep yourself safe.

**OWASP San Antonio - July 21, 2017 @ 11:30am**

Join us for the July 2017 OWASP San Antonio meeting\!

@Denim Group Offices 1354 N Loop 1604 E Suite 110 San Antonio, TX 78232

We will have a talk comparing the internet to the US Interstate System,
and what this means to the future of information security.

Speaker: Damon Small

Bio: Damon Small began his career studying music at Louisiana State
University. Pursuing the changing job market, he took advantage of
computer skills learned in the LSU recording studio to become a systems
administrator in the mid-1990s. Over the past 16 years as a security
professional he has supported InfoSec initiatives in the healthcare,
defense, aerospace, and oil and gas industries. In addition to his
Bachelor of Arts in Music, Damon completed the Master of Science in
Information Assurance degree from Norwich University in 2005. His role
as Technical Director includes working closely with NCC Group
consultants and clients in delivering complex security assessments that
meet varied business requirements.

Title: Connections: Eisenhower and the Internet

Abstract : The speaker researches the history of one large,
government-funded infrastructure and compares it to another.
Specifically, the Eisenhower Interstate System and the Internet.
"Connections: Eisenhower and the Internet" explores what the logistical
challenges of moving vehicles across the Country can teach us about
cybersecurity. Although these two topics seem unrelated, the speaker
will take the audience on a journey that begins with early 20th century
road-building projects, travels through ARPANET and the
commercialization of the Internet, and arrives at current-day
cyberspace. These two massive infrastructures have changed the world,
and there are important lessons that the former can teach about the
latter. The presentation concludes with predictions about the future of
the Information Superhighway and how information security professionals
can prepare.

**OWASP San Antonio - June 30, 2017 @ 11:30am**

Join us for the June 2017 OWASP San Antonio meeting\!

@Denim Group Offices 1354 N Loop 1604 E Suite 110 San Antonio, TX 78232

We will have a talk about testing infrastructure code.

Speaker: Dimitry Ushakov

Bio: Dimitry Ushakov is a Quality Engineer at Rackspace. When not
dealing with impostor syndrome from working with geniuses every day, he
works on making operators' and deveopers' lives easier with test
automation, continuous integration/delivery management, and other
testing industry buzzwords.

Title: Testing Infrastructure Code

Abstract: Whether you subscribe to TDD or like to write all your tests
after all the development's complete, we can all agree that testing
application code is a great idea. While we do a very good job in
validating that our application works, we rarely give as much love to
our infrastructure code. Infrastructure testing allows us to validate
the hardware, software dependencies, and system configurations will work
when deploying to a target environment without actual need for
deployment (most of the time).

In this talk, we'll define what we mean by infrastructure as code and
infrastructure testing. We’ll use the ecosystem one of the major players
in this area, Chef, to take a look at the tooling available to properly
unit, static analysis, integration test, and compliance/security test
our infrastructure.

In the second part of the talk, we'll work through a demo application,
applying that tooling to build a truly CI/CD pipeline.

**OWASP San Antonio - May 26, 2017 @ 11:30am**

Join us for the May 2017 OWASP San Antonio meeting\!

Denim Group 1354 N Loop 1604 E Suite 110 San Antonio, TX 78232

We will have a talk about adding security to your software procurement
process.

Speaker: Kevin Dunn

Bio: Kevin Dunn is Senior Vice President for Consultancy for NCC Group.
Kevin has been a professional security consultant for over 15 years,
working on diverse projects and challenging technologies for the world’s
largest and most demanding companies. His current responsibilities
include delivering security consultancy while managing a talented highly
technical team of Pentesters. Kevin works closely with Fortune 100
companies, covering Oil & Gas, Finance and Software sectors, developing
strategic security assessment and advisory services for NCC Group brands
from his office base of operations in Austin, TX. Over his career, he
has worked on lots of physical penetration tests, site audits, and
design or implementation projects for physical security.

Title: It Was Broken When It Got Here\! Security in your Software
Procurement Process

Abstract: In 2017, Software Security is reasonably well understood.
Thanks to the hard work of organizations like MITRE, OWASP, BSIMM,
Microsoft, OpenSAMM and others, we have moved to a much better software
security landscape when compared to 10+ years ago. Of course
vulnerabilities still exist, and are found with regularity, but these
are typically addressed quickly and competently by the big software
vendors. For example a new critical vulnerability in Windows will be
fixed by Microsoft and patched efficiently in most enterprises in a
matter of days to weeks. Most recently Google managed to fix an OAUTH
vuln being exploited in a mass-phishing exercise in a matter of hours\!
But what about everything else you install in your company or use as a
service? Not all product vendors have the same level of understanding or
approach to security, and not all software is under the constant
scrutiny of an operating system or widespread authentication mechanism.

As organizations we buy and install lots of third party software,
ranging from desktop applications through to entire platforms or
appliances. Who is checking that software is free of simple
vulnerabilities? This issue of security for Commercial Off-The-Shelf
(COTS) software, or Free and Open Source Software (FOSS), is often a
complicated one. In this talk, we'll look at some case-studies of
vulnerabilities found during penetration tests that were then used to
forge compromises of companies. In each case, the flaws discovered and
exploited had been within the products for a significant amount of time,
providing a potential backdoor into the company's internal network or
data.

The session will culminate in advice and guidance for how to ensure that
security is not an after-thought when purchasing new enterprise products
for your company.

**OWASP San Antonio - January 27, 2017 @ 11:30am**

Denim Group 1354 N Loop 1604 E Ste 110, San Antonio, TX

Join us for the January 2017 OWASP San Antonio meeting\!

We will have a talk about integrating Security into DevOps pipelines
through the use of attack surface monitoring.

Speakers: Dan Cornell

Bios: A globally recognized application security expert, Dan Cornell
holds over 15 years of experience architecting, developing and securing
web-based software systems. As the Chief Technology Officer and a
Principal at Denim Group, Ltd., he leads the technology team to help
Fortune 500 companies and government organizations integrate security
throughout the development process. He is also the original creator of
ThreadFix, Denim Group's industry leading application vulnerability
management platform.

Title: Monitoring Application Attack Surface to Integrate Security into
DevOps Pipelines

Abstract: A web application’s attack surface is the combination of URLs
it will respond to as well as the inputs to those URLs that can change
the behavior of the application. Understanding an application’s attack
surface is critical to being able to provide sufficient security test
coverage, and by watching an application’s attack surface change over
time security and development teams can help target and optimize testing
activities.

This presentation looks at methods of calculating web application attack
surface and tracking the evolution of attack surface over time. In
addition, it looks at metrics and thresholds that can be used to craft
policies for integrating different testing activities into Continuous
Integration / Continuous Delivery (CI/CD) pipelines for teams
integrating security into their DevOps practices.

<https://www.meetup.com/OWASP-San-Antonio/events/236883708/>

**OWASP San Antonio - August 26, 2016 @ 11:30am**

Denim Group 1354 N Loop 1604 E Ste 110, San Antonio, TX

Join us for the June OWASP San Antonio meeting\!

We will have a talk about Automated DNS Data Exfiltration and Mitigation
.

Speakers: Nolan Berry, Towne Besel, Cory Schwartz

Bios: Nolan Berry is a Linux Systems Engineer on the Network Operations
DNS Infrastructure team at Rackspace.

Towne Besel is a Security Engineer on the Network Operations DDoS Team
at Rackspace.

Cory Schwartz is a Linux Operations Engineer on the Rackspace Cloud
Storage Team.

Title: Automated DNS Data Exfiltration and Mitigation

Abstract: Come and learn about DNS based data exfiltration and see it in
action. We will show you how a few simple scripts we wrote can steal
data from a secure network almost without detection using obfuscated DNS
lookups. We will cover the concepts, perform a live demo, and show you
how to detect this type of malicious activity.

<http://www.meetup.com/OWASP-San-Antonio/events/233427790/>

**OWASP San Antonio - June 23, 2016 @ 11:30am**

Denim Group 1354 N Loop 1604 E Ste 110, San Antonio, TX

Join us for the June OWASP San Antonio meeting\!

Note: New date is Thursday, June 23.

We will have a talk about source-assisted web application penetration
testing.

Speaker: Dan Cornell

Bio: A globally recognized application security expert, Dan Cornell
holds over 15 years of experience architecting, developing and securing
web-based software systems. As the Chief Technology Officer and a
Principal at Denim Group, Ltd., he leads the technology team to help
Fortune 500 companies and government organizations integrate security
throughout the development process. He is also the original creator of
ThreadFix, Denim Group's industry leading application vulnerability
management platform.

Title: The ABCs of Source-Assisted Web Application Penetration Testing
With OWASP ZAP: Attack Surface, Backdoors, and Configuration

Abstract: There are a number of reasons to use source code to assist in
web application penetration testing such as making better use of
penetration testers’ time, providing penetration testers with deeper
insight into system behavior, and highlighting specific sections of code
so development teams can remediate vulnerabilities faster. Examples of
these are provided using the open source ThreadFix plugin for the OWASP
ZAP proxy and dynamic application security testing tool. These show
opportunities attendees have to enhance their own penetration tests
given access to source code.

This presentation covers the “ABCs” of source code assisted web
application penetration testing: covering issues of attack surface
enumeration, backdoor identification, and configuration issue discovery.
Having access to the source lets an attacker enumerate all of the URLs
and parameters an application exposes – essentially its attack surface.
Knowing these allows pen testers greater application coverage during
testing. In addition, access to source code can help to identify
potential backdoors that have been intentionally added to the system.
Comparing the results of blind spidering to a full attack surface model
can identify items of interest such as hidden admin consoles or secret
backdoor parameters. Finally, the presentation examines how access to
source code can help identify configuration settings that may have an
adverse impact on the security of the deployed application.

<http://www.meetup.com/OWASP-San-Antonio/events/231594503/>

**OWASP San Antonio - May 20, 2016 @ 11:30am**

Denim Group 1354 N Loop 1604 E Ste 110, San Antonio, TX

Join us for the May OWASP San Antonio meeting\!

Note: New date is Friday, May 20 to avoid Memorial Day conflicts.

We will have a talk about Runtime Application Self-Protection (RASP).

Speaker: Kunal Anand

Bio: Kunal is the co-founder and CTO of Prevoty, a next-generation
application security platform. Prior to that, he was the Director of
Technology at the BBC Worldwide, overseeing engineering and operations
across the company’s global Digital Entertainment and Gaming
initiatives. Kunal also has several years of experience leading
security, data and engineering at Gravity, MySpace and NASA’s Jet
Propulsion Laboratory. His work has been featured in Wired Magazine and
Fast Company. He continues to develop the patented security technologies
that power Prevoty’s core products. Kunal received a B.S. from Babson
College.

Title: Runtime Application Self-Protection (RASP) Tools

Abstract: Kunal will be discussing Runtime Application Self-Protection
(RASP) and a new high-performance methodology called language theoretic
security (LANGSEC). Kunal will also break down how lexers, tokenizers
and parsers work, and construct an open source toolchain to analyze data
and explore interactive data visualizations -- covering the challenges
of modern AppSec along the way.

<http://www.meetup.com/OWASP-San-Antonio/events/231044053/>

**OWASP San Antonio - April 29, 2016 @ 11:30am**

Denim Group 1354 N Loop 1604 E Ste 110, San Antonio, TX

Join us for the April OWASP San Antonio meeting\! We will have a talk
about AppSec Pipelines\!

Speaker: Matt Tesauro

Bio: Matt Tesauro is the a founder and CTO of Infinitiv, a Senior
Software Security Engineer at Pearson and was previously the Senior
Product Security Engineer at Rackspace. He is also an Adjunct Professor
for the University of Texas Computer Science department teaching the
next generation of CS students about Application Security. Matt is
broadly experienced information security professional of 15 years
specializing in application and cloud security. He has also presented
and provided trainings at various international industry events
including DHS Software Assurance Workshop, OpenStack Summit, SANS AppSec
Summit, AppSec US, EU and LATAM. His work has included security
consulting, penetration testing, threat modeling, code reviews, training
and teaching at the University of Texas and Texas A\&M University. He is
a former board member of the OWASP Foundation and project lead for OWASP
AppSec Pipeline & WTE projects. WTE is a collection of application
security testing tools. He holds two degrees from Texas A\&M University
and several security and Linux certifications.

Title: Taking AppSec to 11: AppSec Pipelines, DevOps and Making Things
Better

Abstract:How many applications are in your company’s portfolio? What’s
the headcount for your AppSec team? Whatever your situation is, I am
sure the numbers are not in your favor. Its not time to find a new
career, it's time to up your game. This talk will cover how to take your
small merry band of AppSec professionals and scale it up to a virtual
army. By taking the best of DevOps, Agile and CI/CD, you can iteratively
up your AppSec game over time and begin your ascent out of the security
hole you are in.

The talk covers real world experiences running AppSec groups at two
different companies. Rackspace with approximately 4,000+ employees and
Pearson with 40,000+. Both have an international presence and far more
apps and developers that AppSec staff. The talk covers the key
principles to speed and scale up AppSec programs using an AppSec
Pipeline as well as practical examples of these practices put into use.
Start early and begin to buy down the technical security dept which
feels inevitable with more traditional AppSec program thinking.

**OWASP San Antonio - March 25 @ 11:30am**

Denim Group 1354 N Loop 1604 E Ste 110, San Antonio, TX

Join us for the March OWASP San Antonio meeting\! We will have a talk
about giving tech talks\!

Speaker: Major Hayden

Bio: Major Hayden started at Rackspace in 2006 as a Linux support
technician. Over the years, he has worked in support, software
development, operations, and information security roles. Major currently
works with the OpenStack Private Cloud team with a focus on operations
and information security. He blogs frequently on major.io and has been
known use Twitter from time to time.

Title: Taming the Technical Talk

Abstract: Many technical people inevitably find themselves up against
the most terrifying challenge of their careers: giving a technical talk.
Talking in front of large groups of people is never easy, but it can
transform the future of software projects or the careers of individuals.
This nerve-wracking career catalyst can be tamed, however, through
careful planning and thoughtful delivery.

During this talk, we will embark on a journey to overcome our fears and
deliver high quality technical talks to small or large groups. We will
cover everything from the early stages, such as choosing a topic, all
the way to the day of talk itself.

<http://www.meetup.com/OWASP-San-Antonio/events/228893612/>

**OWASP San Antonio - February 26 @ 11:30am**

Denim Group 1354 N Loop 1604 E Ste 110, San Antonio, TX

Join us for the February OWASP San Antonio meeting\! We will have a talk
about Automated API testing\!

Speaker: Matt Valdes

Bio: Matt Valdes is a Security Developer in Test on the Security and
Quality Engineering team at Rackspace. Throughout his career, he has
been involved in all aspects of the SDLC and is passionate about
security testing, process engineering and automation.

Title: Automating Security Tests for APIs

Abstract:RESTful APIs are an increasingly common attack vector for
applications. Despite this ever-present threat, open source and
commercial vendor support for automatic API security scanners remains
limited. With the rate at which APIs are developed, enhanced and
deployed, this lack of security test automation creates a gap that at
its best limits adoption, and at its worst may leave an application open
to attack. To fill the gap in security testing efficiency, members of
the Rackspace Quality Engineering and Security Engineering teams worked
together to create an Open Source, automated API security scanner.

Syntribos is a flexible, automated scanner that provides configurable
test coverage for any HTTP API. Learn how Syntribos enables you to test
HTTP APIs in an automated way, helping to detect and eliminate common
security vulnerabilities such as SQL injection, command injection,
denial of service attacks, and more.

<https://github.com/openstack/syntribos>

**OWASP San Antonio - January 29 @ 11:30am**

Denim Group 1354 N Loop 1604 E Ste 110, San Antonio, TX

Join us for the first OWASP San Antonio meeting of 2016\! We will have a
talk about XPath Attacks\!

Speaker: Luis Torres

Bio: Luis Torres is a security consultant with VerSprite. An avid pen
tester, researcher, CTF participant, and bug bounty winner - Luis is a
key consultant for VerSprite's AppSec Consulting practice where he
focuses his time on client-server, cloud, web services, and fat client
security testing. His recent research has been around more damaging
exploits around XPath injection which he seeks to share with you today.

Title: XPath Awakens - Attacks & Impact Around XPath Injection

Abstract: XPath is a language that has been designed and developed to
operate on data that is described with XML. The XPath injection allows
an attacker to inject XPath elements in a query that uses XML. Threat
agent goals are often aim to circumvent authentication and/or access
information in an unauthorized manner.

Developers today use XPaths to perform actions over XML based documents,
however insecure coding practices could lead allow for injection issues
to surface in web applications. Blind XPath Injection retrieves
information by making true/false interrogations with web applications,
however they mostly focus on retrieving current query information,
skipping sensitive information on XML nodes outside of current query
requests. This presentation will extend beyond these blind injection
attacks and discuss how to retrieve the entire XML document, using Blind
XPath Injection techniques.

**OWASP San Antonio - September 18 @ 11:30am**

Denim Group 1354 N Loop 1604 E Ste 110, San Antonio, TX

Join us for the September 2015 OWASP San Antonio meeting\! We will have
a talk about detecting security breaches\!

Speaker: Josh Sokol

Bio: Josh Sokol, CISSP, graduated from the University of Texas at Austin
with a BS in Computer Science in 2002. Since that time, he has worked
for several large companies, including AMD and BearingPoint, spent some
time as a military contractor, and is currently employed as the
Information Security Program Owner at National Instruments. In his
current role, Sokol manages all compliance, security architecture, risk
management, and vulnerability management activities for NI. Sokol
created the free and open source risk management tool named SimpleRisk,
has spoken on dozens of security topics including the much-hyped
"HTTPSCan Byte Me" talk at Black Hat 2010, and currently serves on the
OWASP Global Board of Directors.

Title: The Fox is in the Henhouse: Detecting a Breach Before the Damage
is Done

Abstract: Your firewall is a sieve with more holes poked in it than your
Grandmother's pin cushion, your IPS doesn't know a breach from a hole in
the ground, and your signature-based anti-virus can't keep up with the
ever changing tide of malware being hurled at you from every direction.
It's time to take a deep breath and admit to ourselves that the
traditional methods of keeping the bad guys out of our networks have
failed us. Just over two years ago, we began focusing much of our
efforts on incident detection and response. Rather than sinking our
precious time and money into tools that would become obsolete before the
next BlackHat, we decided to take the time to analyze our networks and
got creative with different ways to find the systems that have been
compromised that those other technologies couldn't detect. In this
presentation, we will walk you through the analytics we are running, the
tools that we are using, and the techniques that we employ to find and
remediate the bad guys from our networks. Good security doesn't have to
break the bank; it just has to break the mold.

**OWASP San Antonio - August 28th @ 11:30am**

Denim Group 1354 N Loop 1604 E Ste 110, San Antonio, TX

Join us for the August 2015 OWASP San Antonio meeting\! We will have a
talk about building, sniffing and breaking Zigbee (IoT).

Speaker: David Lister

Bio: David Lister (CISSP, CASP, CCISO, CCNA, CEH, ECSA, CPT, RHCSA,
Security+ ) has also been active in various roles involving systems
administration, network security, incident response, penetration
testing, and application security. David holds a Master's degree in
Infrastructure Assurance from the University of Texas San Antonio, and
is a member of the ISSA, San Antonio Hackers Anonymous, and OWASP.

Title: Building, Sniffing, and Breaking Zigbee

Abstract:This will be a shallow dive into how you can get up and running
with Zigbee, what it is and what it’s used for. Also covered will be
some of the known ways to break Zigbee networks, and how this relates to
application security.

Denim Group Offices: 1354 N Loop 1604 E Suite 110, San Antonio, TX 78232

<http://www.meetup.com/OWASP-San-Antonio/events/224725183/>

**OWASP San Antonio - July 31st @ 11:30am**

Denim Group 1354 N Loop 1604 E Ste 110, San Antonio, TX

Join us for the July 2015 OWASP San Antonio meeting\! We will be having
a talk about compromising Continuous Integration systems.

Speaker: Greg Anderson

Bio: Greg Anderson works for Rackspace where he helps to drive test
automation and security.

Title: Is This Your Pipe? Compromising Build and Automation Pipelines

Abstract: As developers of the web, we rely on tools to automate
building code, run tests, and even deploy services. What happens when
developers do CI/CD wrong? Credentials get exposed, hijacked, and
re-purposed. I'll talk about how often, where, and what happens when
people leak public cloud credentials, how some are protecting themselves
using encrypted secrets, how to bypass protections against leaking
secrets and how to turn someone's Jenkins Install into your own butler.
Come hijack credentials out of repositories, steal hidden and encrypted
secrets using builds, and hijack infrastructure via continuous
integration systems.

Denim Group Offices: 1354 N Loop 1604 E Suite 110, San Antonio, TX 78232

<http://www.meetup.com/OWASP-San-Antonio/events/223970537/>

**OWASP San Antonio - June 26th @ 11:30am**

Denim Group - 1354 N Loop 1604 E Ste 110, San Antonio, TX

Join us for the June 2015 OWASP San Antonio meeting. We will be having a
talk about Continuous Integration and Continuous Deployment (CI/CD) of
OpenStack.

Speaker: Michael Xin

Bio: Michael Xin is working as a manager of security engineering in
Rackspace. Before that, he worked as a senior application security
engineer in Scottrade Inc. Michael is interested in web application /
web service / API security, mobile application security and cloud
security. Michael has years of experience with application security
assessment, security code review and security SDLC.

Title: OpenStack Security CI/CD Way

Abstract: As OpenStack becomes popular, Continuous Integration and
Continuous Deployment (CI/CD) of OpenStack is gaining attention.
Customers need the ability to deploy multiple times every day to meet
their business needs. This is a huge challenge to application security.
Traditional web application security testing and API security testing
are manual processes aided by various tools. The tests are time
consuming and lack consistence. It is almost impossible to embed these
types of security testing into CI/CD process.

In Rackspace, security engineering team is working with quality
engineers and developers to integrate security testing into CI/CD
process. Security engineering team uses the same framework/tool that
quality engineer use to ease integration. Currently we are focusing on
API security testing automation and web application security testing. We
are working on a couple of approaches to integrate security-testing
cases with QE testing framework. The security test cases cover necessary
security checks including common security vulnerability checks and some
product specific checks. These security test cases can be run by anyone
from the team. They can also be invoked as Jenkins jobs as part of
integration test. The failed security test cases indicate some types of
security defects and need to be remediated.

The security testing automation improves the consistency, repeatability
and auditability of our security testing process. Security testing
within CI/CD process can detect security defect in early stage and
reduce remediation costs.

Denim Group Offices: 1354 N Loop 1604 E Suite 110, San Antonio, TX 78232

<http://www.meetup.com/OWASP-San-Antonio/events/223161579/>

The link of the slides:
<http://www.slideshare.net/michaelxin2015/openstack-security-cicd-way>

The links of the tools: <https://github.com/stackforge/opencafe>
<https://wiki.openstack.org/wiki/Security/Projects/Bandit>

**OWASP San Antonio - May 29, 2015 @ 11:30am**

Denim Group - 1354 N Loop 1604 E Ste 110, San Antonio, TX

Join us for the May 2015 OWASP San Antonio meeting. We will be having a
talk about Mobile Application Security Assessments.

Speaker: Dan Cornell

Bio: A globally recognized application security expert, Dan Cornell
holds over 15 years of experience architecting, developing and securing
web-based software systems. As Chief Technology Officer and Principal at
Denim Group, Ltd., he leads the technology team to help Fortune 500
companies and government organizations integrate security throughout the
development process.

Title: Application Security Assessments By The Numbers: A Whole-Istic
View

Abstract:

By analyzing the data from over 60 mobile application security
assessments, we identify the typical types of mobile vulnerabilities,
the system components that contain those vulnerabilities, the components
where given types of vulnerabilities cluster, and how to test for each
of these. Attendees will learn in the session how to identify these
vulnerabilities, how to create and implement an effective mobile
security plan, and where to focus their limited testing resources to
minimize mobile application portfolio risks. This is critical because
automated web application testing tools are able to easily find
vulnerabilities while today’s mobile security industry does not offer
automated testing tools that can effectively test web services (i.e. the
interaction between mobile clients and back-end services.) As a result,
best practices for mobile application testing must incorporate
significant, often laborious, manual testing. At this point in the
presentation, we will use the statistics from the research to define the
appropriate manual testing that needs to be implemented.

Denim Group Offices: 1354 N Loop 1604 E Suite 110, San Antonio, TX 78232

<http://www.meetup.com/OWASP-San-Antonio/events/222536787/>

**OWASP Invites You to Attend InnoTech San Antonio as our Guest**

InnoTech, presented by Presidio, is San Antonio’s premiere IT and
security focused conference & expo. We're celebrating eight years of
education, technology and networking at this year's event and you won't
want to miss it\! Mark your calendars now and plan on attending\!

Thursday, April 9, 2015 at the Henry B. Gonzalez Convention Center

A limited number of complimentary passes are available for InnoTech San
Antonio. Please register at innotechsan.com and use the discount code
that you received from your OWASP email list for complimentary
admission. Includes coffee, lunch for the first 125 in line and
afternoon reception.

Check out the list of speakers and technology demos by visiting
<http://www.innotechconferences.com/sanantonio/>

**OWASP San Antonio - March 20th 2015**

On March 20th the OWASP San Antonio Chapter is having a FREE one day,
single track, conference featuring talks about secure software
development, securing the SDLC and application security testing. Whether
you’re an information security professional, software developer, or just
interested in computer security, anyone and everyone is welcome. We have
an all-star set of speakers that will be covering all aspects of
managing a security program as well as in depth testing methodologies.

Map:

<http://bit.ly/owasp-map>

Full Program:

<http://bit.ly/owasp-program>

Schedule:

9:15 - 9:30 Welcome, Sign-in, kickoff

9:30 - 10:30: Keynote, Scaling an Application Security Program, Glenn
Leifheit, Principal Security Architect, Microsoft

One of the largest challenges today is the rapid change in speed of
software. We will journey on the path of accelerating but maintaining
security, From Small Startup to Largest Enterprise, From Waterfall to
Agile. Along the way there will be lessons learned, from successes and
failures. What steps can you take to bring security to the next level.
Application security is not an easy profession, let’s learn together to
take us all to the next level.

About Glenn: Glenn Leifheit is Principal Security Architect for
Microsoft Information Technology's ACE (Assessment, Consulting and
Engineering) Team. In this role he provides security advice to Microsoft
internally as well as external customers. Prior to joining Microsoft,
Glenn created, developed and led the application security program for
FICO (Fair Isaac Corporation). He also lead FICO’s PCI program. He is
also a former co-chair and current member of (ISC)2 Application Security
Advisory Council where he helps evangelize for strong application
security and advocates for change throughout the industry. Through
Glenn's 20 year career in information technology he has focused on
security, architecture, OS and middleware design, and operations along
with software development. Glenn holds both a CISSP and the CSSLP
certifications. He is also passionate about evangelizing security
practices to the development community, engaging in over 50 conferences,
users groups and code camps as a speaker or panel member. Glenn is also
a founding member of TechMasters, a Toastmasters group designed to
create a technical speaker community.

10:30 - 11:30: Maximizing Security with Minimal Resources, Chris Maier,
Principal Architect, Rackspace

Ever wonder how to intelligently spend your security dollars on the
systems that matter most? Are you faced with the common problem of " I
don't have an unlimited security budget but I am required to secure all
the things"? This session will present concepts, methodologies, and
tooling to help you identify your critical systems, set a prescriptive
value on your data assets, and rank the systems and information in a way
that helps highlight where you should focus your security efforts and
dollars. We will also cover how to present this information in a manner
that is more business focused, and to ensure that the business
understands the risk vs. reward of securing and protecting each of the
assets.

About Chris: Chris Maier is a Principal Architect at Rackspace, and in
his current role helps design and implement shared infrastructure
systems in a secure and compliant manner. Chris has nearly 18 years of
production operations experience on a variety of systems including
email, identity, databases, directory servers, and a variety of
applications servers. Chris has written scripts and code in Bash, VB,
Java, C, C++, and a little python for many of the systems he has
supported over the years. Because of the 10 plus years spent on identity
and authentication systems, Chris is very cognizant of and familiar with
a wide variety of security issues and security best practices. Some of
Chris' previous positions have included primary DBA for a SOX & PCI
compliant billing system, identity infrastructure lead engineer, hosted
exchange lead engineer, infrastructure systems lead engineer, and
eLearning lead engineer.

11:30 - 12:45: Lunch (provided)

12:45 - 1:45: Convincing Your Management, Your Peers, and Yourself that
Risk Management Doesn’t Suck, Josh Sokol, Information Security Program
Owner, National Instruments

As security professionals, almost every action we take comes down to
making a risk-based decision. Web application vulnerabilities, malware
infections, physical vulnerabilities, and much more all boils down to
some combination of the likelihood of an event happening and the impact
of that event. Risk management is a relatively simple concept to grasp,
but the place where many practitioners fall down is in the tool set.

The lucky security professionals work for companies who can afford
expensive GRC tools to aide in managing risk. The unlucky majority out
there usually end up spending countless hours managing risk via
spreadsheets. It's cumbersome, time consuming, and just plain sucks.
After starting a Risk Management program from scratch at a $1B/yr
company, I ran into these same barriers and where budget wouldn't let me
go down the GRC route, I finally decided to do something about it.
SimpleRisk is a simple and free tool to perform risk management
activities.

Based entirely on open source technologies and sporting a Mozilla Public
License 2.0, a SimpleRisk instance can be stood up in minutes and
instantly provides the security professional with the ability to submit
risks, plan mitigations, facilitate management reviews, prioritize for
project planning, and track regular reviews. It is highly configurable
and includes dynamic reporting and the ability to tweak risk formulas on
the fly. It is under active development with new features being added
all the time and can be downloaded for free or demoed at
<http://www.simplerisk.org>. With a simple, powerful, and cost-effective
tool and some basic risk management knowledge at your disposal, you too
can become the security rock star that your business seeks out for
risk-based decision making. Let me show you how to convince your
management, your peers, and yourself that Risk Management doesn't suck.

About Josh: Josh Sokol, CISSP, graduated from the University of Texas at
Austin with a BS in Computer Science in 2002. Since that time, he has
worked for several large companies, including AMD and BearingPoint,
spent some time as a military contractor, and is currently employed as
the Information Security Program Owner at National Instruments. In his
current role, Sokol manages all compliance, security architecture, risk
management, and vulnerability management activities for NI. Sokol
created the free and open source risk management tool named SimpleRisk,
has spoken on dozens of security topics including the much-hyped
“HTTPSCan Byte Me” talk at Black Hat 2010, and currently serves on the
OWASP Global Board of Directors.

1:45 - 2:45: Automating Security Tests with Selenium, Brady Vitrano,
Lead Quality Engineer, Rackspace, Charles Neill, Security Engineer,
Rackspace

Rackspace Quality and Security Engineers are building a framework to
automate both functional testing and security testing within the
browser. To learn about the basics, this presentation looks at our
approach to automating functional testing and security testing for web
applications. You will learn about Selenium, and how to write some tests
of your own. We will also teach you how to run your test cases using a
Selenium grid to speed up the testing process.

About Brady: Brady is an aspiring mad scientist.

About Charles: Charles is a Security Developer - Test II for Security
Engineering team at Rackspace. He enjoys finding new vulnerabilities in
everything from webapps to smart TVs.

The slides download link:
<https://www.owasp.org/images/4/49/Owasp_automation_talk.pptx>

2:45 - 3:45: Making Security as Agile as Development: Adding DevOps and
TDD to your security program, Matt Tesauro, Application Security Leader,
Pearson

Software and application development are not slowing down. Is your
AppSec program able to keep pace? With agile development, continuous
deployment, DevOps, and Cloud the pace of change in the software
industry has only increased. As as AppSec professional, you face rapidly
delivered services while making sure they are built reliably and
securely. When you are deploying multiple times a day, there is no time
to fit in your traditional week long security assessment.

In this talk will cover how Matt has put these practices in place at
Pearson after doing similar work at Rackspace. What are the key ways to
keep your AppSec program agile enough to keep up with the pace of change
today. Methods will be discussed for securing infrastructure, apps, APIs
and source code. Even if you are not in the DevOps, CI/CD world today,
you will be soon enough. Its time to embrace the change and say
"Challenge Accepted".

About Matt: Matt Tesauro is the Application Security Lead Engineer at
Pearson and was previously the Senior Product Security Engineer at
Rackspace. He is also an Adjunct Professor for the University of Texas
Computer Science department teaching the next generation of CS students
about Application Security. Matt is broadly experienced information
security professional of 15 years specializing in application and cloud
security. He has also presented and provided trainings at various
international industry events including DHS Software Assurance Workshop,
OpenStack Summit, SANS AppSec Summit, AppSec US, EU and LATAM. His work
has included security consulting, penetration testing, threat modeling,
code reviews, training and teaching at Texas A\&M University. He is a
former board member of the OWASP Foundation and project lead for OWASP
WTE project, a collection of application security testing tools. He
holds two degrees from A\&M University and several security and Linux
certifications.

3:45 - 4:00: Close

'''OWASP San Antonio Chapter - Feb 11 2015 @ 11:30am '''

Come to the first OWASP San Antonio meeting of 2015. We will be having a
talk on BeEF - the Browser Exploitation Framework Project and discussing
plans for the rest of 2015.

Speaker: Charles Neill

Bio: Charles is a Security Developer at Rackspace, where he does
application security for products developed in-house, as well as
OpenStack projects and other third-party products. He also develops
tools to assist with security testing.

Title: Introduction to Cross-Site Scripting with BeEF

Abstract:

Cross-site scripting is a well-known attack vector at this point, but
many people still don't understand the full risk of being vulnerable to
it. BeEF is a framework that combines lots of different tools that can
be useful to an attacker after finding a cross-site scripting bug in a
site. The purpose of this talk is to demonstrate the potential severity
of a cross-site scripting attack, leveraging BeEF to trick the user in
various ways and to try to get as much useful information out of them as
possible.

The slides download link:
<https://www.owasp.org/images/e/e1/Xss-owasp.pptx>

## Past Events

<https://www.owasp.org/index.php/San_Antonio/pastEvents>

[Category:OWASP Chapter](Category:OWASP_Chapter "wikilink")
[Category:United States](Category:United_States "wikilink")
[Category:Texas](Category:Texas "wikilink")