## The presentation

![Jason_Lam.jpg](Jason_Lam.jpg "Jason_Lam.jpg")The DShield project has
been providing the information security industry with early attack
warning data for over 8 years. The project has recently been expanding
the detection scope to web application attacks. Volunteers deploy web
honeypots distributed around the globe. These honeypots collect full log
details (including HTTP request header and body) for DShield to archive
and analyze. In this presentation, the goals and architecture as well as
the experience gained in designing and implementing the distributed
honeypot application will be shared and discussed along with
demonstrations of some of the more interesting results obtained.
Audience members will be encouraged to participate and contribute to the
project.

## The speaker

Jason Lam is a senior security analyst at a global financial
institution. He is also an author and instructor for the SANS Institute
specializing in creating courses on web applications defense and
penetration testing. In his free time he is an incident handler with the
SANS Internet Storm Center. Recently, he took on the role to be a leader
for the DShield honeypot project. The DShield Honeypot Project sets up,
and monitors web application honeypots all over the world gathering
their logs and performing important research and analysis on the latest
trends and attacks.

[Category:OWASP_AppSec_DC_09](Category:OWASP_AppSec_DC_09 "wikilink")
[Category:OWASP_Conference_Presentations](Category:OWASP_Conference_Presentations "wikilink")