## The presentation

![lars_ewe.jpg](lars_ewe.jpg "lars_ewe.jpg")That's right & we said
scalable. Applications which live in the enterprise, COTS or otherwise;
are often some of the most complex and time consuming to assess, when it
comes to evaluating them for commonly exploited vulnerabilities, such as
those listed by the OWASP Top 10. During this talk, the presenters will
explore the ways in which in-depth, transaction based application
assessments can be made to scale within the enterprise, through the use
of automated assessment tools (such as Cenzic Hailstorm), and a rigorous
assessment methodology. While excessive levels of assessment automation
has in the past taken fire for the levels of false positives, and false
negatives it can generate & manual testing has also developed a bad
reputation in many circles due to its high costs and execution time
generally associated with performing thorough application assessments
with a wholly manual approach. The speakers will demonstrate a
methodology, through which a middle ground may be attained, achieving an
assessment which accurately addresses top of mind vulnerabilities,
provides all of the benefits of a manual assessment, falls in budget and
yes & scales\!

## The speakers

Tom Parker, Director Commercial Security Services, Securicon LLC. Mr.
Parker is the Director of Securicon's Commercial Security Services, and
has bottom line responsibility for the success of commercial projects,
and leadership of our commercial services team. Mr. Parker is a
recognized industry expert, has published over four books on the topic
of information security and is a frequent speaker at professional
security conferences, such as the Blackhat Briefings. Tom often lends
his time to providing expert opinion to mass media organizations,
including television appearances on BBC News and CNN, and is frequently
quoted by printed and online media, including the likes of The Register,
Reuters News, Wired and Business Week.

Lars Ewe, Chief Technology Officer and VP of Engineering, Cenzic Inc:
Lars Ewe is a technology executive with broad background in (web)
application development and security, middleware infrastructure,
software development and application/system manageability technologies.
Throughout his career Lars has held key positions in engineering,
product management/marketing, and sales in a variety of different
markets. Prior to Cenzic, Lars was software development director at
Advanced Micro Devices, Inc., responsible for AMD's overall systems
manageability and related security strategy and all related engineering
efforts.

[Category:OWASP_AppSec_DC_09](Category:OWASP_AppSec_DC_09 "wikilink")
[Category:OWASP_Conference_Presentations](Category:OWASP_Conference_Presentations "wikilink")