## The presentation

![Ed_Bellis.jpg](Ed_Bellis.jpg "Ed_Bellis.jpg")The harsh economic
climate has hit us all in some way. Budgets are trimmed and spending is
down. We are continuously asked to do more with less, but how? Certainly
the attackers aren't spending less\! Our web applications continue to
grow in size and complexity. So what can an InfoSec team do to become
more efficient and still effectively protect our applications? At
Orbitz, our team took a hard look at where we were spending a lot of our
time & the grunt work & and how we could spend less of it. After
building out a fairly comprehensive vulnerability management program and
using a lot of best in breed tools, we found ourselves with an
overabundance of manual labor on our hands putting together the pieces
of our vulnerability puzzle. After looking around the market space, we
found nothing that could really help us with this growing problem. Low
and behold, there's a government set of standards now to put all this
together. What the heck, let's build it\!

## The speaker

Ed Bellis, VP, Chief Information Security Officer for Orbitz WorldWide.
Ed is responsible for the protection and security of all information and
electronic assets as well as compliance and ethics across the wide array
of business units that make up Orbitz Worldwide on a global basis. These
assets include Orbitz, CheapTickets, eBookers, Away.com, HotelClub,
RatesToGo, AsiaHotels, and Orbitz for Business. With over 16 years of
experience in information security and technology, Ed has worked with
and been involved in protecting information assets at several Fortune
500 companies. Prior to joining Orbitz, Ed served as VP of Corporate
Information Security for Bank of America within their Global Corporate
and Investment Banking division. Ed serves on the advisory board to the
Society of Payment Security Professionals as well as co-leads the OWASP
PCI project. He also is a frequent blogger for CSOonline.com.

[Category:OWASP_AppSec_DC_09](Category:OWASP_AppSec_DC_09 "wikilink")
[Category:OWASP_Conference_Presentations](Category:OWASP_Conference_Presentations "wikilink")