## Local News

Best way to keep up to date with meet-ups and the like is subscribe to
the [OWASP Scotland Google
Group](https://groups.google.com/a/owasp.org/forum/#!forum/scotland-chapter).

You can also now follow us on [Twitter
(@OWASPScotland)](https://twitter.com/OWASPScotland).

## Acknowledgements

A big thank you to **FanDuel** for hosting our upcoming February 2019
event. As well as providing the beer and pizza\!

## Upcoming Events

Signup to the chapter [Google
Group](https://groups.google.com/a/owasp.org/forum/#!forum/scotland-chapter)
to be informed of upcoming events.

### Thursday, 9 May 2019

**Time**: 18:00 – 20:00 BST

**Location**: PwC, 144 Morrison Street, Edinburgh, EH3 8EX

#### Deception, Confusion, Mistrust: Attacks and Defences

**Speaker**: Matt Wixey

This talk will cover 2 topics. The first focuses on Remote Online Social
Engineering (ROSE), an emerging long-term attack vector deployed by
threat actors to build trust and rapport with targeted users in order to
gain access to business networks. I'll provide an outline of attackers'
methodologies, why they would want to deploy them, some case studies,
and countermeasures. The second is a light-hearted look at ways in which
defenders can confuse, deceive, or frustrate attackers on a compromised
honeypot or other host, with an emphasis on practical implementation.
I'll examine some historic ways in which this has been done, along with
some case studies, and then present some new methods I've come up with,
with a few demos.

**Bio**

Matt leads technical research for the PwC Cyber Security practice in the
UK, and is a PhD candidate at University College London. Prior to
joining PwC, Matt led a technical R\&D team for a law enforcement agency
in the UK. His research interests include antivirus and sandboxing
technologies, unconventional attack vectors, side-channels, and radio
security.

#### Why Security-as-a-Feature Will Never Happen

**Speaker**: Lawrence Munro

In a fairly dystopian view of our Cyber future, this talk discusses the
reasons why we still haven't been able to include security as a design
feature in applications.This talk goes into detail around the issues
with human nature, education, financial requirements and laziness that
contribute to the generally grim state of 'cyber' security.

As a security community (especially in Penetration testing), we’re very
quick to throw mud and laugh at developers who’re not writing secure
code. We also like to tell ourselves about new security issues and keep
our learning within the community (as that's where we seek / receive the
most praise). We should turn our view externally and reflect on
information that we make available and how who we lobby to make positive
changes. We simply don't teach people security early enough and position
it as an essential design feature when people learn their trade. The
general premise of the topic is that as an industry we know that one of
the key challenges is that security needs to be 'baked in' at the design
level. However, when we are taught the rudiments of Information
Technology, security is not inherent or considered. The fundamental lack
of security rubrics in education during key learning milestones means
that security will always be an afterthought, or the domain of the
specialist. If we're not addressing security at this level and providing
the masses with a proper education, we'll never win the battle, let
alone the war. In my opinion, the fault resides with those providing
information to those seeking to learn. Specifically: Universities,
Colleges, vendors, commercial providers, your friend Dave from school,
authors and anyone who showed their friends how to customise their page
on MySpace.com in the early 2000's. In order to validate my assertions,
I have audited the occurrence of secure coding learning (at to
respective top 25 UK / US universities) in undergraduate software
engineering degrees (by module). I have also performed a similar
evaluation on commercial offerings and looked at some of the most
popular introductory books. I use this secondary data along with my own
views to demonstrate the current failures of the industry and propose
approaches to remedy this issue.

**Bio**

Lawrence Munro is the Worldwide VP of SpiderLabs, a Post-Graduate
Student at Oxford University and Director for B-Sides London. My
research (and presentation topics) are varied, but often include: red
teaming, education in InfoSec and weird side-projects. Lawrence has
previously presented his thoughts and research at: Black Hat USA 2018,
DEFCON 2017, 44CON 2018, RootCon 2017, B-Sides (Various), ToorCon San
Diego 2015.

## Past Events

### Thursday, 21 February 2019

**Time**: 18:00 – 20:00

**Location**: FanDuel, Quartermile One (Level 4), 15 Lauriston Place,
Edinburgh, EH39EP

We have two great speakers kicking off 2019 for us.

Tickets available
here: [<https://owasp-scotland-november.eventbrite.co.uk>](https://www.eventbrite.co.uk/e/owasp-scotland-chapter-meeting-february-tickets-55989107929)

Many thanks to FanDuel for hosting this event.

#### Seeing what is not there: searching in Windows paths

*Speaker*: Margus Lind, Context IS

Windows – designed to make training materials self-improve.

During a recent Windows breakout and privilege escalation training
session we stumbled upon several new instances of exploits. While the
underlying principles are well known, it is shocking to see such
weaknesses exploitable out of the box, even on the latest Windows 10
RS5.

Firstly, the presentation will give a brief overview of the way Windows
searches for required commands and DLLs. This will be followed by some
practical examples of how it can be exploited to escalate privileges and
bypass UAC.

Overall, we’ll see that while Windows makes an ever improving attempt at
security features, the spaghetti bowl of legacy features and behaviours
remains rather entertaining...

#### A view of the threat landscape

*Speaker*: Don Smith, Secureworks

Using examples of real world attacks, Senior Director Don Smith will
discuss lessons learned from recent incidents involving determined and
persistent adversaries. This session will illustrate the methods used by
advanced actors  to avoid detection and consolidate their access in
compromised environments. The session will also explore how security
teams can improve their chances of defending against such adversaries,
pragmatic advice with the odd reality check. 

### Thursday, 15 November 2018

**Time**: 18:00 – 20:00

**Location**: Ernst & Young, 144 Morrison St, Edinburgh EH3 8EX

We are in for a treat in the final OWASP Scotland chapter meeting for
2018 with presenters from the USA and Spain. We have Matt Nelson, Lee
Christensen and Brian Reitz from SpecterOps as well as Simon Goldsmith
from EY’s Cyber Security Hub presenting.

Tickets available here: https://owasp-scotland-november.eventbrite.co.uk

Many thanks to EY for hosting this event.

**Cyber Infusion: Security in Innovation for Financial Services**

*Speaker*: Simon Goldsmith, EY

It's almost become a cliché to say that "digital transformation (DX) is
changing the way we do things". Technology enabled transformation is
changing the way we interact, how we do business and the speed at which
we innovate. It´s also changing the way we need to look at security.

Cyber Infusion is about ensuring security is embedded into how we
innovate, rather than the more costly and practically ineffective
approach of “bolting it on”. It means security has to operate less as
the external “policeman” and more as a “guide” within the team to help
chart a course. While there are business imperatives, digital and Open
Banking inherently brings cyber risks: with greater connectivity, more
data, more parties and more identities to manage, there is greater
opportunity for increasingly industrialised and innovative threats to
compromise systems, as well as greater regulatory attention and the
potential for vulnerabilities to exist.

In this discussion, we will outline the nature and issues around Cyber
Infusion in financial services innovation and a case study from an Open
Banking programme showing where good practice can not only ensure a
compliant and secure capability, but also add value through
differentiation.

Bio: Simon leads the Innovation and Infusion team in EY’s EMEIA
Financial Services Cyber Centre of Excellence. His team’s role is to
develop new security approaches for EY’s financial services clients and
integrate with EY´s digital transformation and financial crime
capabilities to help other teams secure their innovation.

**Outlander: Traveling Back in Time for Windows Attack Paths**

*Speaker*: Matt Nelson (@enigma0x3), Lee Christensen (@tifkin_) and
Brian Reitz (@brian_psu), SpecterOps

Microsoft Windows is built on a number of technologies that seemed like
good ideas at the time.

In practice these were often poorly implemented, overly ambitious,
difficult to understand, and insecure by default: a great combination
for pentesters.

We'll examine two technologies in the Windows graveyard, COM and RPC,
that are still in modern versions of Windows and provide multiple attack
paths for pentesters.

We'll go over our methodology for enumerating and discovering the
lesser-known features of these technologies, and how the attack surface
still remains largely untested in 2018.

### Thursday, 20 September 2018

**Time**: 18:00 - 20:00

**Location**: FanDuel, Quartermile One, Level 4, 15 Lauriston Place,
Edinburgh, EH39EP

The next OWASP Scotland Chapter meeting pencilled in the diary for
Thursday 20th September. Many thanks to Fanduel, who has kindly offered
to host this event for us.  They will also be providing pizza and beer\!

For attending this event you will be able to claim 2 CPE points.

Tickets available on Eventbrite:

<https://owasp-scotland-chapter-meeting-september-tickets.eventbrite.co.uk>

**DNS over TLS / DNS over HTTPS - The privacy magic bullet?**

Speaker: Sean Wright

ith the introduction of Cloudflares new DNS service there was much hype
around how it supported DNS over HTTPS and how this would help privacy.
This talk investigates some potential short comings with this technology
and how it is still possible in some cases to have information leaked
about what site is being visited.

**Raising Organisational Security Awareness with CTFs**

Speaker: Rob Jansson

Capture the Flag (CTF) events are run frequently throughout the security
community and conferences around the globe. Outside of security this is
commonly unknown territory and means little to Joe Bloggs. Everyone
within an organisation is responsible for security, whether it be data
entry, developers, infrastructure / hosting services etc.; and security
is often seen a blocker or some sort of black magic. This talk will walk
you through how a CTF event was run within an organisation to raise
security awareness amongst its employees, the challenges, successes and
failures encountered. At the end of the talk you should have a good idea
how to get one setup and whether you’d want to incorporate this into
your organisation’s security programme.

### Monday, 21 May 2018

**Time**: 18:00 - 20:00

**Location**: Ernst & Young,144 Morrison St, Edinburgh EH3 8EX

We are pleased to let you know we have the second 2018 OWASP Scotland
Chapter meeting pencilled in the diary for Monday 21<sup>st</sup> of
May. Many thanks to EY who has kindly offered to host this event for us.

On this occasion we have the pleasure of having Tal Mozes do a talk on
‘Cyber Terror’. Tal comes from an impressive background in information
security; and is currently a Partner at EY leading their Hacktics Cyber
Security Center.

In the second talk Rob will be presenting on ‘Responsible Disclosure –
The Good, the Bad and the Ugly’.

For attending this event you will be able to claim 2 CPE points.

Tickets available on
Eventbrite: https://www.eventbrite.co.uk/e/owasp-scotland-chapter-meeting-may-tickets-45703255668

**Cyber Terror**

Speaker: Tal Mozes

Most of us, cyber security professionals, help in the fighting of
cybercrime. 

Most of our threat agents are opportunists, ideologists, organized crime
and other Advanced Adversaries. But between those threat agents there
are also terrorists, which are using the latest technologies to plant
terror. From information warfare, to targeted attacks, what motivates
them, what can they do and how can we all help in preventing the next
digital terror attack.

**Responsible Disclosure – The Good, the Bad and the Ugly**

Speaker: Rob Jansson

What is responsible disclosure and is it something that would help
protect your company from cyber attack? In this talk we will examine the
benefits of having a responsible disclosure policy in place, what can go
wrong and get ugly (really fast\!).

### Wednesday, 14 March 2018

**Time**: 18:00 - 20:00

**Location**: PwC offices, 144 Morrison Street, Edinburgh, EH3 8EX 

We are pleased to let you know we have the first 2018 OWASP Scotland
Chapter meeting pencilled in the diary for Wednesday 14th March. Many
thanks to PwC who has kindly offered to host this event for us.

We are still confirming speakers so please save the date and await
further information in the near future.

If you would like to present, please drop Sean or Rob an email with a
brief blurb of the proposed subject. We will review all submissions and
get back to you.

For attending this event you will be able to claim 2 CPE points.

**Website Discovery & Managing the Shadow Estate**

Speaker: James Penny

There’s been a lot of writing and talks about the problem of Shadow IT –
where users are working on their own cloud services, devices, and using
unapproved software to get around “restrictive” or unresponsive
controls.

A variation on this theme that’s talked about less is the “Shadow
Estate” – services and websites that are launched without proper
oversight and assent from departments that should be vital stakeholders.
The core issue remains the same: the more controls we try to implement,
the more project teams who don’t share our priorities will attempt to
avoid them.

This talk explores a few possible reasons for this phenomenon, and the
steps we in security can and have been taking to mitigate it.

**Analyst, Engineer or Consultant?**

Speaker:Harry McLaren

A looks at common roles with cybersecurity from the perspective of a
Managing Consultant who’s been through several in quick succession and
an introspective analysis of what makes a successful cybersecurity
professional.

Tickets available on Eventbrite:
<https://owasp-scotland-march-2018.eventbrite.co.uk>

### Wednesday, 4 October 2017

**Time**: 18:00

**Location**: Secureworks, 

1 Tanfield, 

Edinburgh,

EH3 5DA

To attend, please register here for the event
<https://owasp-scotland-oct-2017.eventbrite.co.uk> Places are limited,
so please only register if you will definitely be attending.

\* Please note that if your name is not on the list, you will be
unlikely to enter the venue.

**Revocation is broken, here's how we're fixing it**

*Speaker*: Scott Helme

The certificates we obtain from a Certificate Authority underpin trust
on the web. The problem is that if we lose the key for our certificate
an attacker can use that certificate to successfully impersonate us for
as long as it's valid, potentially years. We need a way to revoke the
trust in these certificates so that they can't be abused but all current
revocation mechanisms are largely useless. Let's look at the new
mechanisms being introduced to address the problem of revocation.

### Thursday, 31 August 2017

Hope everyone is enjoying the summer and ready for the next OWASP
Scotland Chapter meeting as we have secured two great talks for you.
Please see blurbs below for details and Edinburgh University are again
very kindly providing us with meeting space. 

We have had great feedback from the previous event and look forward to
seeing you all at the end of August. Very likely to be networking
opportunities after the talks over a refreshment at a nearby watering
hole.

**Time**: 18:30

**Location**:  MF2 on the 4th floor,

Informatics Forum,

10 CrichtonStreet,

Edinburgh,

EH8 9AB

#### Deconstructing WannaCry

*Speaker*: James Slaughter

\- Who, What, Where, Why and How.

\-  Or, how I actioned the incident and learned more about the malware
to help our organization weather one of the largest malware events to
occur in recent history.

#### Driving Remediation in Large Organisations

*Speaker:* Andrew Scott

Congratulations\!  Your vulnerability scanning, penetration testing and
bug bounty programmes are all running really well.  But what about
remediation?  When it comes to fixing the problems identified by the
various assurance programmes it’s easy to become swamped by the sheer
volume and not make enough progress on actual fixes.  How do you sort
the must fixes from the nice to haves and how do you push the fix rate
up and the time to fix down?  I’ll look at a number of the challenges
here and some solutions.

## Sponsors

If you would like to sponsor the OWASP Scotland chapter, please get in
contact with [Sean Wright](mailto:sean.wright@owasp.org) or [Rob
Jansson](mailto:rob.jansson@owasp.org).

[Category:Chapters](Category:Chapters "wikilink") [Category:United
Kingdom](Category:United_Kingdom "wikilink")
[Category:Europe](Category:Europe "wikilink")