## Future Events

Future events are posted on the OWASP Seattle Chapter meetup page.
**<http://www.meetup.com/Seattle-Open-Web-Application-Security-Project-OWASP-Chapter/>.**

## Past Events

Meetup events from 2015 onwards can be found on the meetup's [past
events
section](https://www.meetup.com/Seattle-Open-Web-Application-Security-Project-OWASP-Chapter/events/past/).

Historical events follow:

### Event - February 25th, 2015

**Start time:** 6PM **Rough agenda:** 6PM - eat and be social 7PM first
talk 7:45-8PM second talk 9PM(ish) go home

**Location:** Lunchbox Laboratory Bellevue - 989 112th Ave NE, Bellevue,
WA RSVP by going to -
<http://www.meetup.com/Seattle-Open-Web-Application-Security-Project-OWASP-Chapter/events/220516464/>
or just reply to me

Here is more information about the talks:

**Talk \#1**

Title: Security & Bitcoin

Talk Summary

Bitcoin is a decentralized virtual currency whose valuation and use has
grown stupendously since its inception in January 2009.

There are some intuitive concerns with securing cryptocurrency such as
bitcoin. However, Bitcoin is a dramatic and unique invention that that
exposes new security paradigms. This talk covers them in depth.

About the speaker

Ashok Misra has architected ecommerce systems for companies such as
Amazon.com, Real Networks, Rhapsody, Linden Labs ( Second Life) etc. He
is the founder of Alina Consultants, Inc. Alina Consultants Inc, is a
boutique consulting firm advising and building solutions for ecommerce
merchants on epayment architecture, global payment roadmap and security.
He has considerable experience in crypto currencies and in particular in
building bitcoin purchase paths. He is widely regarded as a ePayment
Security Expert and possesses in-depth knowledge on PCI Compliance. He
has a deep knowledge of country specific payment methods and mobile
payments. He is the Chairperson for the European Customer Not Present
Payments Forum (EU CNPPF). He holds a CISSP & auditing certifications
CPISM/A.

**Talk \#2**

Title: node.js (in)security

About the speaker

Ilja van Sprundel is the Director of Penetration Testing at IOActive.
His primary expertise centres on penetration testing and vulnerability
assessments. Van Sprundel has designed custom security solutions for
software development companies, the telecommunications industry, the
financial services sector, and non-profit organisations around the
world. Furthermore, he played a pivotal role in security review of
Windows Vista. Van Sprundel has written numerous white papers and is a
well-respected author in the security community. He is also frequently
invited to speak at security conferences around the world. Most recently
he presented at PacSec, Ruxcon, BlueHat, CanSecWest, 44Con, and
EUSecWest.

### December 14h, 2011

[List
announcement](https://lists.owasp.org/pipermail/owasp-seattle/2011-December/000152.html)

**When** 6:30pm - December 14

**Where** 801 North 34th Street, Seattle, WA
([map](http://maps.google.com/maps?q=801+North+34th+Street,+Seattle,+WA+&hl=en&ll=47.648275,-122.34787&spn=0.024979,0.072098&sll=37.0625,-95.677068&sspn=30.130288,73.828125&vpsrc=6&hnear=801+N+34th+St,+Seattle,+Washington+98103&t=m&z=14))

Selected By: Raymond Forbes

**Parking** Adobe provides a small, no-pay parking lot for visitors
arriving on site by car. The lot is located under the Aurora bridge,
directly east of the Waterfront building.

When parking at Adobe, visitors must display a temporary parking permit
from the rear view mirror of their vehicle. Guests can obtain the permit
from Security when checking in with reception. The visitor must then
return to his/her vehicle to hang the permit from the rear view mirror.

There's some pay parking under the Fremont Bridge, on the west side of
the building. The front door is on the northeast corner of the building.

'''RSVP: Required ''' Adobe also needs the names of everybody going 48
hours before the meeting. I will be sending them what we have in the
meetup.com event. That means, make sure you are signed up\!\! There is
lots of room still, so definitely take a look at the event.

[Meetup
Link](http://www.meetup.com/Seattle-Open-Web-Application-Security-Project-OWASP-Chapter/events/37453002/)

**Speakers**

In December we are delighted to have two presentations:

  - Eve Maler on online identity and SAML
  - Dinis Cruz on the [OWASP O2 Platform](OWASP_O2_Platform "wikilink")
    project

<b>Online Identity and the Future of SAML

Eve Maler is a principal analyst serving Security & Risk Professionals.
She is an expert on emerging identity and security solutions, identity
federation, consumer-facing identity and web access management,
distributed authorization, privacy enhancement, and web services
security. Eve helps clients manage risk and utilize business
opportunities through identity and access management business and
technology strategy. She is based in the Seattle area.

Prior to joining Forrester, Eve was an identity solutions architect with
PayPal, developing business and technical strategies for new consumer
identity services offerings. Previously, Eve managed Sun Microsystems'
technical collaborations with Microsoft on web services and federated
identity interoperability, and she made major leadership, technical, and
education contributions to the development of the SAML standard for
federated identity.

<b> OWASP O2 Platform - Automating Security Testing </b>

This talk will be an update on what's new with the O2 Platform since
last's years presentation at this chapter and a special challenge to the
participants.

See
\[<http://diniscruz.blogspot.com/2011/12/o2-in-seattle-and-please-hack.html>|
"...O2 in Seattle..." and "...Please Hack TeamMentor (beta)..."\] for a
full description of this presentation.

<b> Previous Event - November 17th, 2011 </b>

[Register for this
event](http://www.meetup.com/Seattle-Open-Web-Application-Security-Project-OWASP-Chapter/events/37444702/)

Talk : [No SQL and even less
security](http://blogs.adobe.com/asset/2011/04/nosql-but-even-less-security.html).
Speaker : Bryan Sullivan

Location : KPMG, Suite 900 801 second avenue Seattle, WA

Time : 6pm to 8pm

To attend this meeting you must RSVP via the Meetup page due to limited
spaces.

[Register for this
event](http://www.meetup.com/Seattle-Open-Web-Application-Security-Project-OWASP-Chapter/events/37444702/)

### Previous Event 11 August (Wednesday)

**Location:** Bellevue Las Margaritas

437 108th Ave NE

Bellevue, WA 98004

(425) 453-0535

**Date:** 8/11/2010 @ 6:30ish

*Presentations:*

**How OWASP Works and Guided Tour of OWASP Projects**

**Speaker: Dinis Cruz**

This presentation will focus on my experience in getting things done at
OWASP, what resources are available and what types of initiatives should
the local chapters be doing. In addition to a quick overview of a number
of key OWASP projects, this talk will also provide a tutorial on how the
OWASP WIKI (MediaWiki based) can be used as a database (using the
MediaWiki templates technology)

-----

**Using the O2 Platform to Consume OWASP projects**

**Speaker: Dinis Cruz**

This presentation will focus on how to consume the OWASP Wiki and a
number of OWASP projects using the OWASP O2 Platform. The O2 Platform
has powerful technology and capabilities for both BlackBox and WhiteBox
analysis and this presentation will provide examples on how to use O2
with: WebGoat, WebScarab, Code Crawler, Dir Buster, Testing Guide, Code
Review Guide and OpenSAMM

The O2 Platform is focused on automating application security knowledge
and workflows. It is specifically designed for developers and security
consultants to be able to perform quick, effective and thorough
'source-code-driven' application security reviews (BlackBox + WhiteBox).
In addition to the manual findings created/discovered by security
consultants, the OWASP O2 Platform allows the easy consumption of
results from multiple OWASP projects and commercial scanning tools. This
allows security consultants to find, exploit and automate (via Unit
Tests) security vulnerabilities usually dismissed by the community as
impossible to find/recreate. More importantly, it provides the Security
Consultants a mechanism to: a) 'talk' with developers (via UnitTest) ,
b) give developers a way to replicate + "check if it's fixed" the
vulnerabilities reported and c) engage on a two-way conversion on the
best way to fix/remediate those vulnerabilities.

**Dinis Cruz** is a Security Consultant based in London (UK) and
specialized in: ASP.NET/J2EE Application Security, Application Security
audits and .NET Security Curriculum Development.

For the past years Dinis has focused on the field of Static Source Code
analysis, from May 2007 to Dec 2009 he worked as a independent
consultant for Ounce Labs (bought by IBM in July 2009) where during
active security engagements using Ounce's technology he developed the
Open Source codebase which now is the foundation of the OWASP O2
Platform.

Dinis is currently focused on making the O2 Platform the industry
standard for consuming, instrumenting and data-sharing between the
multiple WebAppSec tools, the Security consultants and the final
developers.

Dinis is a also active trainer on .Net security having written and
delivered courses for IOActive, Foundstone, Intense School and KPMG (at
multiple locations including BlackHat), and has delivered a number of
presentations and keynote speeches at multiple OWASP and Security
related conferences

At OWASP, Dinis is the leader of the OWASP O2 Platform project, member
of the OWASP Global Projects Committee, chair of the OWASP Connections
Committee and member of the OWASP Board

### Previous Event 28 April (Wednesday)

**Location:** Bellevue Las Margaritas

437 108th Ave NE

Bellevue, WA 98004

(425) 453-0535

**Date:** 4/28/2010 @ 6:30ish

*Presentations:*

**When Tools Are Not Enough â€“ Best Practices for Securing Web
Applications**

**Speakers:** Walter Pearce & Wade Winright from IOActive

The demands of regulatory compliance may have you looking to
vulnerability scanning tools in the hopes of finding a silver bullet to
examine your web applications. However, it is not realistic to expect
scanners alone to accurately determine the impact of the web application
vulnerabilities they detect. In this presentation, Walter Pearce and
Wade Winright will discuss best practices for securing web applications,
including how to effectively utilize tools in conjunction with
penetration testing.

**Walter Pearce** is a Senior Security Consultant at IOActive,
experienced in enterprise-level application assessment and consultation.
At IOActive he performs penetration testing, identifies system
vulnerabilities, and designs custom security solutions for clients in
software development, telecommunications, financial services, and
professional services. Pearce has performed security assessments and IT
security support services for many companies in the Fortune 100,
including involvement in the largest existing penetration test of a
major educational institution. He regularly leads IOActive training
courses on numerous topics that include web application security, secure
coding in C\# or C++, and threat modeling.

**Wade Winright** is a Security Consultant at IOActive, experienced in
security testing, and network and systems installation and
configuration. At IOActive he performs vulnerability and enterprise risk
assessments of application, systems, and infrastructure, and designs
custom security solutions for clients in software development,
telecommunications, financial services, and professional services.
Winright is a SANS GIAC Certified Incident Handler with a focus on
incident handling and hacker tools/techniques, and also is certified by
the E-Commerce Council CEH, focused on vulnerability/penetration testing
and countermeasures.

-----

**Protecting Your Applications from Backdoors:**

How to Secure Your Business Critical Applications from Time Bombs,
Backdoors & Data

**Speaker:** Clint Pollock from Veracode

With the increasing practice of outsourcing and using 3rd party
libraries, it is nearly impossible for an enterprise to identify the
pedigree and security of the software running its business critical
applications. As a result backdoors and malicious code are increasingly
becoming the prevalent attack vector used by hackers. Whether you manage
internal development activities, work with third party developers or are
developing a COTS application for enterprise, your mandate is clear-
safeguard your code and make applications security a priority for
internal and external development teams. In this session we will cover;
Prevalence of backdoors and malicious code in third party attacks
Definitions and classifications of backdoors and their impact on your
applications Methods to identify, track and remediate these
vulnerabilities

**Clint Pollock** is a Senior Solutions Architect at Veracode. Since
1997, he has also created security solutions for large-scale enterprise
environments on behalf of CREDANT Technologies and Netegrity. In his
current role, Clint helps globally distributed organizations evaluate,
track, and mitigate their online business risk. Clint's greatest
strengths are his enthusiasm, experience and determination to help
customers succeed in maintaining secure, compliant systems, and avoid
the consequences and bad headlines that come with application security
breaches. Clint resides in Chicago, IL.

### Previous Event 3 February (Wednesday)

**Location:** Bellevue Las Margaritas

437 108th Ave NE

Bellevue, WA 98004

(425) 453-0535

**Date:** 2/3/2010 @ 6:30ish

**Speakers:**

**Speaker: Hidetake Jo**

**Same Origin Policy**

**Presentations:**

![<File:SameOriginPolicy.ppt>](SameOriginPolicy.ppt
"File:SameOriginPolicy.ppt") - Same Origin Policy slide deck

![<File:Rendezvous.ppt>](Rendezvous.ppt "File:Rendezvous.ppt") -
Presentation on the Rendezvous toolset

Same origin policy is a simple and important security policy which
protects millions of users on the web. Often times the policy is over
simplified and there is a misconception that there is one consistent
policy being used across all web technologies. Unfortunately this canâ€™t
be further from the truth. Different browser brands, RIA plugins,
various scripting languages and features within the browser environment
have their own interpretation of the same origin policy. Not
understanding the subtle differences can be catastrophic to web
security. This presentation tries to summarize the deltas in the same
origin policy. This is also a call for action to involve the community
to more comprehensively document the policies.

**Hidetake Jo** is part of the Trustworthy Computing team in Office. He
works with teams throughout Office to identify threats and ways to
mitigate those threats, he also gets to break stuff. Hidetake has
written many penatration testing tools that are used throughout
Microsoft.

-----

**Speaker: Pravir Chandra**

**Open Software Assurance Maturity Model (OpenSAMM)**

**Presentation:**

Slide deck can be found
[here](http://www.opensamm.org/downloads/OpenSAMM-1.0.ppt)

The Open Software Assurance Maturity Model (SAMM)
(http://www.opensamm.org/) is a flexible and prescriptive framework for
building security into a software development organization. Covering
more than typical SDLC-based models for security, SAMM enables
organizations to self-assess their security assurance program and then
use recommended roadmaps to improve in a way that's aligned to the
specific risks facing the organization. Beyond that, SAMM enables
creation of scorecards for an organization's effectiveness at secure
software development throughout the typical governance, development, and
deployment business functions. Scorecards also enable management within
an organization to demonstrate quantitative improvements through
iterations of building a security assurance program. This workshop will
introduce the SAMM framework and walk through useful activities such as
assessing an assurance program, mapping an existing organization to a
recommended roadmap, and iteratively building an assurance program. Time
allowing, additional case studies will also be discussed. OpenSAMM is an
open a free project and has recently been donated to the Open Web
Application Security Project (OWASP) Foundation. For more information on
OpenSAMM, visit <http://www.opensamm.org/>.

**Pravir Chandra** is Director of Strategic Services at Fortify Software
and works with clients on software security assurance programs. Pravir
is recognized for his expertise in software security, code analysis, and
his ability to strategically apply technical knowledge. Prior to
Fortify, he was a Principal Consultant affiliated with Cigital and led
large software security programs at Fortune 500 companies. Pravir
Co-Founded Secure Software, Inc. and was Chief Security Architect prior
to its acquisition by Fortify. He recently created and led the Open
Software Assurance Maturity Model (OpenSAMM) project with the OWASP
Foundation, leads the OWASP CLASP project, and also serves as member of
the OWASP Global Projects Committee. Pravir is author of the book
Network Security with OpenSSL.

### Previous Event 11 August (Tuesday)

**Location:** Bellevue Las Margaritas

437 108th Ave NE

Bellevue, WA 98004

(425) 453-0535

**Date:** 8/11/2009 @ 6:30ish

**Speakers:**

**Speaker: Anil Kumar Revuru**

'''Slides: '''
[<file:Anti-XSS_3.0_RV.pptx>](file:Anti-XSS_3.0_RV.pptx "wikilink")

**The Microsoft Anti-Cross-Site Scripting Library**

The Microsoft Anti-Cross-Site Scripting Library V3.0 (Anti-XSS V3.0) is
an encoding library designed to help developers protect their ASP.NET
web-based applications from XSS attacks. It differs from most encoding
libraries in that it uses the white-listing technique â€” sometimes
referred to as the principle of inclusions â€” to provide protection
against XSS attacks. This approach works by first defining a valid or
allowable set of characters, and encodes anything outside this set
(invalid characters or potential attacks). The white listing approach
provides several advantages over other encoding schemes. The following
are some new features of Anti-XSS library v3.0.

  - An expanded white list that supports more languages
  - Performance improvements
  - Performance data sheets (in the online help)
  - Support for Shift_JIS encoding for mobile browsers
  - Security Runtime Engine (SRE) HTTP module
  - A sample application

In this session, we will learn in-depth how Anti-XSS works and learn
more about its new features.

**Anil Kumar Revuru** currently works for Information Security Tools
team in Microsoft as Senior SDE where he is responsible for architecting
security tools. In his previous life at Microsoft, Anil conducted
security design reviews, threat modeling, and application and
source-code assessments. He has authored security tools and has
presented security courses internally at Microsoft. He excelled in his
abilities by developing security tools such as Microsoft Threat Analysis
and Modeling Tool and Anti-XSS Library. Anil holds a Diploma in
Mechanical Engineering from JNTU Hyderabad. Anil displayed expert
proficiency in the substantive and technical areas of design and
development. Has keen interest in photography, xbox and computer
hardware.

-----

**Speaker: Andre Gironda**

**Using ASVS with the Code Review Guide, Testing Guide, and Time
Management**

The OWASP Application Security Verification Standards, which defines
four levels of web application security verification, lays down a
framework for security architecture review. While the ASVS includes many
requirements for controls, it does not suggest which tools, techniques,
timeline or methodologies to utilize. The OWASP Code Review and Testing
Guides provide the technical practices and suggest or hint at tools, but
also lack the timeline and methodology necessary to complete an
application penetration-test or SDLC integration project for proper
application security hygiene.

This presentation will provide the 1000 foot view all the way down to
the nitty gritty details of how to perform ASVS activities using OWASP
resources, as well as some OWASP and non-OWASP tools (freeware or
demoware). Example timelines for typical ASVS activities, including
reports, will be discussed so that any sort of application security
project can be scoped properly, delivered on-time, and within budget.

**Andre Girond**a is an application security specialist with a global
security consulting firm providing IT security services to the Fortune
500 and financial institutions as well as U.S. and foreign governments.
Prior to his current employment, Andre held a number of payment
application security positions in addition to working for the largest
online auction website. He is currently a leader for the Open Web
Application Security Project (OWASP), where he co-produces the global
OWASP News Podcast.

### Previous Event 28 April (Tuesday)

**Location:** Bellevue Las Margaritas

437 108th Ave NE

Bellevue, WA 98004

(425) 453-0535

**Date:** 4/28/2009

**Speakers:**

**Speaker: Scott Stender**

**Securing our Legacy - Responding to the call to provide practical
security assurance**

Every few months witnesses the release of a much-hailed report from an
industry organization, think tank, or government agency calling for the
software that runs our critical infrastructure to be secured. Making the
call is easy, acting on it is only slightly harder, but succeeding at it
is incredibly difficult.

Of all of the tasks that must be undertaken to truly meet the call, the
single biggest challenge I have seen companies face is delivering
security assurance on legacy code. This talk will explore the challenge
of providing security assurance for these old, little-loved, but heroic
systems that power our lives. More importantly, It will include guidance
for software development managers and engineers seeking to gain insight
into the operation of their legacy systems, mechanisms by which
important security assertions can be gathered, and practical methods for
carrying out penetration tests and code reviews with the aim of
providing a high degree of security assurance.

Scott Stender is a co-founder and Partner of iSEC Partners, a strategic
digital security organization. Scott brings with him several years of
experience in large-scale software development and security consulting,
having worked at @stake and Microsoft in previous lives.

In his research, Scott focuses on secure software engineering
methodology and analysis of core technologies. Scott has been published
in publications such as IEEE Security & Privacy, and has presented at
Microsoft Blue Hat and at Black Hat conferences on several occasions.
Scott holds a BS in Computer Engineering from the University of Notre
Dame.

-----

**Speaker: Ashok Misra**

**Application Issues with encryption of PANs**

There are unique application issues related to the storage and
processing of credit card numbers for ecommerce transaction processing.
This talk focuses on issues with the various cryptographic primitives
used for PANs.

Ashok Misra is an Ecommerce professional with more than 10 years
experience delivering results for leading ecommerce merchants.

He is currently Sr. Manager Payments & Security in the Media
Applications Platform Development Division for e-Commerce products for
Real Networks, Inc in Seattle, Washington. He brings an unusually
comprehensive insight into security and payments processing.

Ashok is responsible for the Billing for Realâ€™s Consumer Divisions. He
takes a leadership role in identifying new opportunities in the consumer
payments domain. He has extensive hands on experience in merchant
integration with several leading payment providers.

Prior to working with Real Networks he built backend components for
ecommerce for Amazon.com.

He has comprehensive domain knowledge in consumer payments over the
internet with Credit Cards, EU Direct Debit , Real time Bank Transfers ,
Redirect Payment Instruments, Fraud Detection and PCI Compliance.

### Previous Event 23 October (Thursday)

**Location:** 810 Third Avenue

Seattle, WA 98104

Conference room on the first floor

**Date:** 10/23/2008

**Time:** 6:30PM

**Speakers:**

**Speaker: Michael Eddington**

**Fuzzjacking\!**

Fuzzing is one of the hot new buzzwords in the security industry and if
your clients had not already ask for it they will. This talk will
introduce the subject, talk about different types of fuzzers,
integration into SDL, when to fuzz and also talk a bit about the Peach
Fuzzing Platform. Questions and interaction requested :)

-----

Michael Eddington is a founding principal of Leviathan Security Group
with over ten years experience in computer security, with expertise in
application and network security, through threat modeling. Michael
founded the security services practice for IOActive and co-founded the
Security Services Center for Hewlett-Packard's services division.
Michael is also an accomplished software developer, having participated
in a number of open-source security development projects ranging from
the Trike threat modeling conceptual framework to the Peach Fuzzer
Platform.

**Speaker: Chris Weber**

**Exploiting Unicode-enabled Software**

This talk will showcase some of the ways that Unicode has been leveraged
to cause software to break. We will survey the security issues outlined
in Unicode Technical reports 36 and 39. The issues highlighted will be
illustrated by examples of historical Unicode-related security flaws in
popular software and Web applications. For each vulnerability we will
assess the damage that was inflicted, describe how the exploit worked,
and discuss the root cause. Examples will include demonstrations of how
clever attackers can exploit Unicode-enabled software to run arbitrary
code or takeover the machine.

-----

Chris Weber co-founded Casaba Security who focuses on security testing
for some of the world's leading software development companies and
online properties. He has authored several security books, articles and
presentations. He has worked as a security researcher and consultant for
seven years and has identified hundreds of security vulnerabilities in
many widely used software products

### Previous Event 12 June (Thursday)

**Location:** Bellevue Las Margaritas

437 108th Ave NE

Bellevue, WA 98004

(425) 453-0535

**Date:** 06/12/2008

**Time:** 6:30PM

**Speakers:**

**Speaker: Taylor McKinley**

**Dynamic Taint Propagation: Finding Vulnerabilities Without Attacking**

Dynamic taint propagation allows testers to find vulnerabilities without
modifying existing functional tests. It enables true security testing
inside a QA organization because it allows tight integration with
existing QA infrastructure and solid usability for non-security experts.
This talk will:

  - Explain how dynamic taint propagation works.
  - Show how to retrofit an existing executable to perform dynamic taint
    propagation.
  - Demonstrate how a tester can use a typical suite of functional tests
    to find vulnerabilities, without the need for malicious input or
    security expertise.
  - Compare this approach with the effectiveness of popular penetration
    testing tools--particularly those acquired by IBM and HP in
    2007--when deployed in a QA environment.

The talk will conclude with a look towards the future of security
testing in the QA environment and an overview of how multiple analysis
techniques, both static and dynamic, can work together to provide better
software assurance.

-----

**Taylor McKinley**, Product Manager, Fortify Software

Mr. McKinley brings a rich business and technology background to Fortify
Software, including strategic advisory roles at Morgan Stanley Dean
Witter, New England Capital Partners and as a Principal at The Parthenon
Group. Mr. McKinley has a BA from Williams College and an MBA from
Stanford Business School.

**Speaker: Scott Stender**

**Concurrency Attacks in Web Applications**

Modern web application frameworks are designed for developer
productivity and performance. They are highly scalable, object-oriented,
and can be used to create a usable web site in a matter of minutes.

Highly parallelized, object-oriented web application frameworks
encourage programming practices that make managing state difficult for a
typical programmer. In order to have a web application that is robust in
a multi-threaded environment, the developer must carefully manage access
to all resources that can shared by threads. Global variables, session
variables, database access, and back-end systems are common examples of
such resources, not to mention application-specific resources.

Concurrency flaws result when security-sensitive resources are not
managed properly. As we have seen with almost every other prevalent
class of security flaws, mistakes happen often when doing the right
thing is difficult. To make things worse, concurrency flaws are often
subtle and are identified only through difficult targeted testing.

This presentation will provide brief technical background against this
class of flaw and enumerate testing techniques that help identify when
flaws are present.

-----

**Scott Stender** is a founding partner of iSEC Partners, a strategic
digital security organization. Scott brings with him several years of
experience in large-scale software development and security consulting,
having worked at companies such as @stake and Microsoft. Scott is a
noted researcher who focuses on secure software engineering and security
analysis of core technologies. He holds a BS in Computer Engineering
from the University of Notre Dame.

### Previous Event 4 March (Tuesday)

**Location:** Bellevue Las Margaritas

437 108th Ave NE

Bellevue, WA 98004

(425) 453-0535

**Date:** 03/04/2008

**Time:** 6:30PM

**Speakers:**

**Speaker: Billy Rios**

**Bad Sushi - Beating Phishers at Their Own Game**

This talk will expose tactics and tools used by phishers, show how easy
it is to hack into servers that are used to perform phishing,
demonstrate how easy it is so follow a phsisher's trail to find out how
they share information on US Citizens including SSNs, bank account
numbers, credit card numbers, ATM PINs, you name it.

Phishers usually setup their sites on servers they have compromised. In
other words, the phishers have already done the hard work and it is easy
to gain access to these servers. Due to the sheer volume of sites that
need to be setup to perform a successful phish, phishers tend to be
sloppy and leave traces everywhere.

This talk will expose some of the tactics and tools used by phishers.
Actual walk-through of how compromised hosts were accessed to gain
information about the phishers will be presented.

This talk will also show how easy it is to construct a trail from a
compromised host to obtain information about individuals that is spewed
on hacker message boards located outside the United States.

-----

**Billy Rios** lives in a phish bowl and is constantly being sent emails
from acquaintances all over the world. Billy has won the Internet lotto
several times, is expecting large sums of abandoned money from a long
lost relative in the Congo, and has received checks accidentally made
out for 30,000 instead of 30 US dollars.

**Speaker: Jon McClintock**

Session management is one of the most overlooked areas of web
application security, and yet it can also be the most challenging
feature to get right in your web application. This talk will provide a
brief overview of web session management, followed by an exposition into
how several common web application frameworks implement session
management, finishing with a discussion of several classes of
vulnerabilities that can arise through poor session management.

**Jon McClintock** is a Senior Consultant for Leviathan Security Group,
where he specializes in application security from design through
implementation and into deployment. Prior to Leviathan, Jon was a Senior
Software Engineer on Amazon.com's Information Security team, where he
worked with software teams to define security requirements, assess
application security, and educate developers about security software
best practices.

**Date: 1/23/2008**

**Speakers:**

**Waqas Nazir**, DigitSec

[presentation](https://www.owasp.org/images/e/e9/Emerging_Threats_in_Distributed_Applications_%28Web_2%29.ppt)

Waqas Nazir has been working as an Information Security Consultant for
clients such as Microsoft where he has delivered services in various
arenas of information security. These include code reviews, black box
assessments, product reviews, custom tools development for complex
security problems, policy and process development. He has also worked
with Microsoft Research (MSR) to develop a code analysis tool used for
identifying areas of vulnerabilities in code. He has also been featured
in Microsoft's Information Security Newsletter.

Presentation Title: Emerging threats in Web 2.0

Web 2.0 applications provide many rich features today such as hosting
third party RSS Feeds, hosting third party web pages, translation
services, and cross domain communication. While these rich features
provide great functionality to end users, they can have serious security
implications if not designed properly. Moreover, implementation flaws
plague many of these features. This presentation will focus on some new
emerging threats to Web 2.0 applications from a design and
implementation perspective, leaving out the often covered Web 2.0
Vulnerabilities (Ajax, XSRF, etc).

**Chris Clark**, iSEC Partners

Chris Clark is a Senior Security Consultant at iSEC Partners, Inc. He
possesses several years of experience in secure application design,
penetration testing, and security process management. Most recently
Chris worked for Microsoft performing security analysis and verification
on enterprise management software and was previously responsible for the
security of a web-based payment platform processing over 20 million
credit card transactions per day. Chris has extensive experience in
developing and delivering security trainings for large organizations,
software engineering utilizing Win32 and the .Net Framework, and
analyzing threats to large scale distributed systems. At Microsoft,
Chris was responsible for the coordination of multiple product groups
following the Microsoft Secure Development Lifecycle.

Presentation Title: Ruby on Rails Security

Ruby on Rails has been hailed for its ability to increase developer
productivity by making web development easier. Though Ruby on Rails may
help developers create sites more quickly, it is no more immune to
security threats than other web development frameworks. Chris Clark will
present the means by which the OWASP Top Ten manifest themselves in a
Ruby on Rails environment, provide best practices for preventing these
attacks, and discuss his ongoing research in Ruby-specific security
concerns.

11/29/2007 @ 6:30PM PST - Seattle chapter meeting

**Location:** Bellevue Las Margaritas

437 108th Ave NE

Bellevue, WA 98004

(425) 453-0535

**Date:** 11/29/2007

**Time:** 6PM

**Speakers:**

**Tom Gallagher** has been intrigued with both physical and computer
security from a young age. He is currently the lead of the Microsoft
Office Security Test team. This team is primarily focused on penetration
testing, writing security testing tools, and educating program managers,
developers, and testers about security issues. Tom recently co-authored
the MSPress title "Hunting Security Bugs".

Presentation Title: Hunting security bugs in your code

Description: Finding security bugs is often regarded as an activity
requiring secret powers or extremely specialized knowledge. Some
security bugs are difficult to uncover and require deep knowledge.
However, with basic knowledge many areas can be tested without much
effort. This presentation will show how to perform basic security
testing using simple tools and the difference in effort between finding
a bug and exploiting it.

**David E Stevens III**, Senior ROI Analyst, Symplified Inc.

In 2006, Symplified recruited Stevens for his expertise and ability to
clearly explain concepts like Return On Investment (ROI) and Total Cost
of Ownership (TCO). Over the past 5 years Stevens has given dozens of
presentations regarding ROI, and is a confident and charismatic speaker.
Stevens is touring the U.S. representing Symplified and teaching how ROI
can be applied to security and Identity investments to technical
security user groups.

Synopsis of "Understanding ROI, TCO and other key financial aspects of
IT Security"

In this presentation, Stevens teaches how security and IT professionals
can obtain financing for important security initiatives using accounting
principles such as Return On Investment (ROI) and Total Cost of
Ownership (TCO). In this 30-minute presentation, the group learns what
these terms mean and how they can be used to show the value of security
software purchases. He concludes by sharing other tips on how the
technology professional can better communicate with their business
counterparts. This non-sales presentation is intended to equip attendees
with useful tools that articulate the benefits of investing in IT
security. Learn from Symplified's more than 30 years combined experience
in Identity Management at hundreds of Fortune 500 organizations
worldwide. Attendees receive a useful ROI calculator for IDM
investments. This is a must attend presentation for anyone who has ever
had trouble getting the funding they needed for a security software
investment\!

09/06/2007 @ 6PM PST - Seattle chapter meeting

**Details:** Location: Bellevue Las Margaritas 437 108th Ave NE
Bellevue, WA 98004 (425) 453-0535

Time: 6 o'clock

**Speakers:**

  - **Rob Rachwald** - Rob is a 10-year veteran of the high tech
    industry. Rob started his tech career at Intel, where he worked on
    automating their complex supply chain. Rob managed US product
    marketing for Commerce One and managed their marketing efforts in
    Asia Pacific. Rob, then, managed marketing for Coverity and joined
    Fortify as the Director of Product Marketing focusing on security
    and financial services.
      - Online Banking - Abstract: Banks, often the biggest target of
        cyber attacks, have set an example for responsible security
        strategies. How do the world's leading financial institutions
        balance risk against the pressures of delivering software to
        customers quickly? How are developers trained to write code
        securely? How are software security tools, such as dynamic and
        static analysis, deployed for optimal use?
  - **Damon Cortesi** - Damon has worked in network and application
    security risk management for nearly a decade, beginning with his
    work as Systems and Security Administrator at his alma mater.
    Following school, he entered the professional arena as an
    Information Security Consultant for one of the top 10 CPA firms
    serving financial institutions including banks, credit unions, and
    event the major credit reporting bureaus. Most recently at IOActive,
    Mr. Cortesi has been serving the specialized needs of top technology
    companies in addition to standard penetration testing, web
    application security assessments, source code reviews, and PCI
    assessments.
      - Web Hacking 101 introduces the basic concepts of web application
        security including SQL Injection, Cross-Site Scripting (XSS),
        and typical application logic flaws found in an ASP-based web
        application. These concepts are then put to use in a live
        demonstration that illustrates the all-too-common ways of
        attacking a web application and gaining unauthorized access to
        sensitive information or restricted areas of a website. Demos
        will included manual SQL Injection techniques as well as the use
        of free/open-source tools used to expedite the extraction
        process, examples of both reflected and stored XSS that can be
        used to elevate the privileges of a user, and standard
        authorization bypass issues that developers often ignore.
        Finally, basic mitigation techniques will be discussed that can
        be put into place by developers to prevent these common hacking
        techniques.

''' Update: ''' - Rob's slides can be downloaded from
[here](http://www.owasp.org/images/f/f6/SANS_Online_Banking_Case_study.ppt).
''' Update \#2: ''' - Damon's slides can be found
[here](https://www.owasp.org/images/3/32/Web_Hacking_101.pdf).

-----

2/28/2007 @ 6PM PST - Seattle chapter meeting

**Details:**

Location: Bellevue Las Margaritas
(http://www.lasmargaritasbellevue.com/)

Time: 6 oâ€™clock.

**Speakers:**

  - **Dinis Cruz (Chief OWASP Evangelist)** - Directly from London,
    Dinis will be doing two presentations at this event:
      - **Buffer Overflows on .Net and Asp.Net** - One of the common
        myths about the .Net Framework is that it is immune to Buffer
        Overflows. Although this might be correct in pure managed and
        verifiable .Net code, large percentage of .Net and Asp.Net
        applications code is unmanaged code. In this talk Dinis will
        show the areas in .Net and Asp.Net applications that are
        vulnerable to Buffer Overflows (including the demo of a .Net
        Buffer Overflow Fuzzer).
      - **OWASP, the Open Web Application Security Project** - The Open
        Web Application Security Project (OWASP) is an open community
        dedicated to enabling organizations to develop, purchase, and
        maintain applications that can be trusted. All of the OWASP
        tools, documents, blogs, and chapters are free and open to
        anyone interested in improving application security. In this
        presentation Dinis will show the latest guides and tools from
        OWASP which should be part of every company's security efforts.
      - **0wning Vista's userland - The CAS / UAC missed opportunity,
        and what I think MS should had done** - In this presentation
        Dinis will explore the missed opportunity by Microsoft to use
        technologies like .Net's CAS (Code Access Security) and Vista's
        UAC (User Access Control) to create secure and trustworthy
        userland environments that protect the user's assets. In the
        hope that might make a small difference, ideas and solutions for
        the future will also be presented.

<!-- end list -->

  - **Brad Hill (Senior Security Consultant with iSEC Partners)**, will
    be speaking on:
      - **XML Digital Signature and Encryption: Use and Abuse** - The
        WS-Security set of standards is on the threshold of ubiquitous
        deployment and XML applications have already taken over the
        world. This presentation looks at two underlying technologies,
        XML Digital Signature (XMLDSIG) and XML Encryption (XMLENC),
        their place in the Web Services stack and their applicability to
        non-SOAP XML applications. Beginning with a basic overview of
        the standards, we will uncover some surprising caveats and risks
        in the use of these technologies.

### Previous Meeting 8 January 2007

1/8/2007 @ 6 o'clock - Seattle chapter meeting.

**Details:** Location: Bellevue Las Margaritas
(http://www.lasmargaritasbellevue.com/) Time: 6 oâ€™clock.

Speakers:

Ward Spagenberg of IOActive on the topic "Unraveling PCI".

Since there will be free food, beer and pop please let Mike de Libero
know so we know how much to order. We look forward to seeing you all
there\!

[Category:Washington](Category:Washington "wikilink")