## The presentation

![Joey_Peloquin.jpg](Joey_Peloquin.jpg "Joey_Peloquin.jpg")This isn't
your father's Secure SDLC talk folks\! Join Joey Peloquin, Director of
Application Security at FishNet Security, for a real-world peek into the
secure application development lifecycle. He'll share real-life
anecdotes of good, bad, and ugly development programs, how the PCI DSS
affects application security from a QSA's perspective, and what makes
real application security programs across the nation tick. Finally,
he'll wrap up with a detailed post-mortem of his own first attempt at a
program, how it was flawed, and how his team put the pieces back
together.

## The speaker

Joey Peloquin is the Director of Application Security at FishNet
Security, where he's responsible for project oversight and quality
assurance, business development, and managing the team's offerings and
methodologies. He's spent the last nine of fifteen years in I.T.
specializing in Information Security, with the last five specifically in
Application Security. Prior to joining FishNet Security, he created the
service offerings and methodologies for Hewlett-Packard's Application
Security Center Professional Services Team. At HP, he also served as the
principal delivery consultant and managed all partner-delivered
projects. Joey also spent nearly a decade with the JCPenney Corporation,
where he transformed himself from a network and systems security
specialist into the corporate application security advisor. His final
accomplishments were the creation of JCPenney's application security
program framework, and a significant increase in application security
awareness through aggressive penetration testing policies and
remediation assistance. Joey speaks publicly on a regular basis,
presenting recently at HP Software Universe, OWASP Front Range
Conference, CSO Breakfast Club and Secure360, and has appeared in
articles by Internet Retailer, Techtarget, SC Magazine, SD Times, and
Information Week.

[Category:OWASP_AppSec_DC_09](Category:OWASP_AppSec_DC_09 "wikilink")
[Category:OWASP_Conference_Presentations](Category:OWASP_Conference_Presentations "wikilink")