![468x60-banner-2010.gif](468x60-banner-2010.gif
"468x60-banner-2010.gif")

[Registration](https://guest.cvent.com/EVENTS/Register/IdentityConfirmation.aspx?e=d52c6f5f-d568-4e16-b8e0-b5e2bf87ab3a)
|
[Hotel](https://resweb.passkey.com/Resweb.do?mode=welcome_gi_new&groupID=2766908)
| [Walter E. Washington Convention
Center](http://www.dcconvention.com/)
\== The presentation ==

![Goertzel-photo.jpg](Goertzel-photo.jpg "Goertzel-photo.jpg")A critical
aspect of the U.S. government’s effectiveness is the dependability,
trustworthiness, and survivability of the ICT on which its ability to
perform its functions, activities, services, and missions relies. But as
our adversaries find their efforts to compromise government information
systems and networks increasingly confounded by the expanded reach and
effectiveness of information assurance and cyber security controls and
countermeasures, they seek new targets and avenues of attack. Among
these: the supply chain for software products that are the “building
blocks” of those systems and networks. Supply chain attacks attempt to
either proactively compromise those building blocks before they can be
deployed in systems or networks, or to delay or prevent their delivery
when and where they are needed. The focus of this presentation is on
security risks in the supply chain for off-the-shelf software products,
including commercial-off-the-shelf (COTS) and government-off-the-shelf
(GOTS), open source, shareware, and free software. These include supply
chain risks that involve intentional acts that compromise the integrity,
trustworthiness, or availability of flows, products, or data in the
off-the-shelf software supply chain, regardless of the motivation for
those acts.

## Karen Goertzel

Karen Mercedes Goertzel, CISSP, leads Booz Allen HamiltonÕs Security
Research Service. As a subject matter expert in software safety and
security assurance, information technology supply chain security risk
management, cyber security, information assurance (IA), she has
supported the Defense Technical Information Center (DTIC) Information
Assurance Technology Analysis Center (IATAC), the Office of the Director
of Defense Research and Engineering (DDR\&E) Cyber Security and Systems
Engineering divisions, the Department of Homeland Security (DHS)
Software Assurance Program, Naval Sea Systems Command (NAVSEA) Naval
Ordnance Safety and Security Activity (NOSSA), National Aeronautics &
Space Administration (NASA) Goddard Space Flight Center, the National
Security Agency (NSA) Center for Assured Software, the National
Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) Computer Security Resource
Center (CSRC), and the Defense Information Systems Agency (DISA) IA
Executive, Global Information Grid Enterprise Services Engineering
Directorate, and Application Security Program, among other defense and
civilian organizations. Ms. Goertzel has published, presented, and
taught widely on software safety and security, the insider threat to
information systems, malicious code, cross-domain information sharing,
and security of Social Media, Web 1.0/Web 2.0/Web services and Cloud
Computing applications, as well as on "emerging" technologies such as
computer immunology and autonomic computing. She was a lead author and
editor of several IATAC state-of-the-art reports (SOARs) and IA Tools
Reports, including Security Risk Management for the Off-the-Shelf
Information and Communications Technology Supply Chain, The Insider
Threat to Information Systems, Software Security Assurance, and Malware,
and contributing author the IATAC SOAR Cyber Security and Information
Assurance Measurement and Metrics. She was also contributing author to
several NIST Special Publications (SPs), and has written extensive
software assurance and application security guidance for DHS, NASA,
DISA, NSA, Dept. of State, and other departments and agencies. Her
articles have appeared in CrossTalk: The Journal of Defense Software
Engineering, The Journal of System Safety, the International Council on
Systems EngineeringÕs (INCOSE) Insight, ExecutiveBrief, the IATACÕs
IAnewsletter, and other publications. Before joining Booz Allen \[as an
employee of what is now British Aerospace Engineering (BAE) Systems\],
Ms. Goertzel was a pre-sales technical consultant specializing in
high-assurance systems and cross-domain solutions, in which capacity she
performed requirements analyses and architectural designs for defense
and civilian government organizations in the U.S., North Atlantic Treaty
Organization (NATO), Canada, and Australia.

[Category:AppSec_DC_2010_Presentations](Category:AppSec_DC_2010_Presentations "wikilink")
[Category:OWASP_Conference_Presentations](Category:OWASP_Conference_Presentations "wikilink")