#### Main

The time has come for OWASP to do even more to lead technology companies
towards getting their software secure\! One key component of achieving
secure software is to have a thriving community ecosystem focused on the
security of the technology. A few organizations are starting to build
these, like Microsoft’s BlueHat community and perhaps a few others. But
there’s a huge opportunity for us to do better and OWASP is uniquely
positioned to lead this important effort.

## The OWASP Security Ecosystem Project

OWASP has recently been approached by several large SaaS vendors to help
them work improve their security. We're bootstrapping these ecosystems
right now and are actively recruiting motivated leaders to grow security
ecosystems around other technologies. OWASP will support your efforts in
many different ways.

  - [SalesForce
    (force.com)](:Category:OWASP_Enterprise_Security_API#tab.3DForce.com "wikilink")
  - [Facebook](Facebook "wikilink")
  - [Java](:Category:OWASP_Java_Project "wikilink")
  - [Python](http://www.pythonsecurity.org/)
  - [Stopbadware](http://stopbadware.org/)

## So what is a “security ecosystem”?

Nobody (and no company) can build secure software by themselves. We have
seen that vulnerability research can help to drive security forward in
companies, but it’s a painful process. We envision a partnership between
technology platform vendors and a thriving ecosystem focused on the
security of their technology. A healthy security ecosystem should
include (at least):

  - A centralized portal where the community can interact
  - A set of researchers (both builders and breakers) who collaborate
  - A set of tools focused on verifying the security of the technology
  - Standard security controls for use in securing the technology
  - A set of guidelines for securing the technology (using the standard
    controls where possible)
  - Awareness materials so that managers, developers, and users
    understand the security of the technology
  - Standards (as consensus is reached) to help the ecosystem move
    forward
  - Educational materials (deeper than awareness) for securely using the
    technology
  - Conferences to bring the community together and achieve consensus,
    identify challenges, and make connections
  - Forums and mailing lists for communication
  - News Feeds for announcements and research

## Why collaborate with vendors?

It might be possible for OWASP to try to start an ecosystem without the
vendor’s involvement. In fact the OWASP Java and .NET project partially
fit that description. But these efforts may seem like a threat to
technology vendors. Vendors might start their own ecosystem, but it is
much more likely to succeed with an independent partner like OWASP. The
OWASP Ecosystem Project is intended to help create a collaborative open
effort focused on improving the security of the technology by focusing
on visibility, understanding, and informed decisions about risk. OWASP’s
independence and positive approach makes us the perfect environment for
these ecosystems to grow.

## How do we get started?

The first step is to create a framework for a healthy security
ecosystem\! Then we can choose a few key technologies and vendors that
want to work with us to start. We need to pull together the materials we
have and other materials out on the net into a OWASP Security Ecosystem
Portal. To grow the ecosystem, we’ll solicit research, tools, and other
materials and work with both end-users and the vendor to focus on
eliminating the key risks associated with the technology.

## The future\!

This could mark the dawning of a new collaborative era of application
security, where companies actively engage with security researchers in
order to make their products better. Everyone benefits by creating an
ecosystem focused on fostering transparency. The time has come for
security experts and software developers to collaborate. The stakes are
way too high to waste time and effort on obscurity and infighting.

## Join us

We're looking for energetic technical leaders who would like to build a
thriving security ecosystem around a technology. If you have at least 10
hours a week to dedicate to this important effort, and you think you're
the right person, contact us at owasp@owasp.org.

#### Project Details

__NOTOC__ <headertabs />

[Security Ecosystem Project](Category:OWASP_Project "wikilink")
[Category:OWASP Document](Category:OWASP_Document "wikilink")
[Category:OWASP Alpha Quality
Document](Category:OWASP_Alpha_Quality_Document "wikilink")