## The presentation

![Owasp_logo_normal.jpg](Owasp_logo_normal.jpg
"Owasp_logo_normal.jpg")The demand to integrate security into early
development activities has accelerated in recent years. The Core J2EE
Design Patterns and associated implementation strategies are an ideal
platform for dispensing application security advice due to their
ubiquity and existing popularity within the development lifecycle. While
developers can access documentation on how to implement security
patterns, there has been relatively little work on how to implement
security into existing, established design patterns. Join us in this
interactive presentation as we analyze a sampling of the original
twenty-one Core J2EE Patterns from a security perspective. Patterns from
the presentation, business and integration tiers will be examined. It is
our goal that developers will be encouraged to reference this material
while designing JEE applications that use these patterns or frameworks
that are based on these patterns.

## The speaker

Rohit Sethi, Director of Professional Services, Security Compass, is a
specialist in threat modeling, application security reviews, and
building security controls into the software development life cycle
(SDLC). Mr. Sethi is a frequent guest speaker and instructor at several
national conferences. He has written articles for Security Focus and the
Web Application Security Consortium (WASC), and has been quoted as an
expert in application security for ITWorldCanada and Computer World. At
Security Compass, Rohit teaches hundreds of students various topics on
web application security in cities across North America. He has also
managed and performed extensive threat analysis, source code reviews,
and penetration testing for clients in financial services, utilities,
telecommunications and healthcare. He is often consulted for his dual
expertise in information security and software engineering. Krishna Raja
is an Application Security Consultant with an extensive background in
J2EE application development. He has performed comprehensive security
assessments for various clients, which involves threat analysis, source
code inspection and runtime penetration testing. Mr. Raja has also been
instrumental in the development and delivery of Security Compass'
training curriculum. He has developed and taught courses in Exploiting
and Defending Web Applications, Application Security Awareness and
Advanced Application Attacks to architects, project managers and
developers across Canada and the United States. Krishna is an emerging
speaker at information security conferences, and last year spoke at
Source Boston 2008 and ISSA Secure SD Symposium.

[Category:OWASP_AppSec_DC_09](Category:OWASP_AppSec_DC_09 "wikilink")
[Category:OWASP_Conference_Presentations](Category:OWASP_Conference_Presentations "wikilink")