## The presentation

![Owasp_logo_normal.jpg](Owasp_logo_normal.jpg
"Owasp_logo_normal.jpg")Software updates are an often forgotten backbone
of modern software. The one constant for a piece of deployed software is
that it will need to be updated for bugs, security issues and feature
additions. Distributing a software update to thousands or even millions
of users is a difficult task. There are severe reliability and security
challenges. Most applications don't do it right. The recent Conficker
worm's update mechanism is a case study of how to create a resilient,
cryptographically sound, update mechanism that can defeat legions of
Internet infrastructure administrators and malicious attackers
attempting to stop or take over the botnet. Google's recently open
sourced desktop software update mechanism will be examined as well.
These update mechanisms will be compared with the typical, insecure,
software update mechanism. These mechanisms usually only provide
integrity for their updates, which is not good enough to create a
trusted update mechanism. The presentation will focus on how and why to
provide authenticity, integrity and even confidentiality in your
software update mechanisms.

## The speaker

Jeremy Allen is currently a Senior Software Security Consultant for
Foundstone Inc. (a division of McAfee). Jeremy is responsible for
conducting threat modeling, code reviews, reverse engineering and
application security assessments. He also assists clients with building
security into their software development lifecycle (S-SDLC). Jeremy is
an instructor for the Building Secure Software and Writing Secure Code:
Java courses. For Foundstone, Jeremy has conducted source code reviews
in C and C++, Java and C\# including both kernel mode and application
software. He has also performed reverse engineering and debugging of
unknown malicious binaries and rootkits to determine their functionality
and how they interacted with the hosts they infected. Jeremy has also
authored and contributed to a variety Secure Software Development Life
Cycle documents for corporations with large software development
practices and performed application penetration testing against large
enterprise applications.

[Category:OWASP_AppSec_DC_09](Category:OWASP_AppSec_DC_09 "wikilink")
[Category:OWASP_Conference_Presentations](Category:OWASP_Conference_Presentations "wikilink")