### Time

  - Date/Time: September,21 2016/7am-8:30am PDT
  - [TimeZone
    Converter](http://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/meetingdetails.html?year=2016&month=09&day=21&hour=14&min=0&sec=0&p1=224&p2=24&p3=263&p4=78&p5=37&p6=102&p7=152)

### Location

**Teleconference Information:**

<https://www3.gotomeeting.com/join/861328838>

[International Toll Free Calling
Information](International_Toll_Free_Calling_Information "wikilink")

### Attendance Tracker

**[Board Meeting Attendance
Tracker](https://docs.google.com/a/owasp.org/spreadsheet/ccc?key=0ApZ9zE0hx0LNdG5uRzNYZE8ycDFabnBWNkU4SFpwREE)**

### Notice of Recording

  - Notice to all attendees - board meetings are recorded and publicly
    available as of March, 2013
  - Joining the call acknowledges your awareness of recording and
    consent to be recorded and public dissemination of the recording.

[RECORDING](https://drive.google.com/file/d/0B0yxedKRQADiRWFGZWU0M3JOOG8/view?usp=sharing)

### Meeting Minutes

  -

      -
        \- [August 23, 2016 Meeting
        Minutes](https://docs.google.com/a/owasp.org/document/d/1FYKNJlPHbxAqYpInGD4nbxkpcZ8uKWfJvwQcEWmp5n0/edit?usp=sharing)
        \- [July 27, 2016 Meeting
        Minutes](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1vGtDOkRKD_NcL29p5__etthCePwdLYrXNQOIBpo-gCw/edit)

# Reading Material

***It is a requirement as a board member to fully read all material
prior to the start of the meeting***

  - Treasurer's report

<!-- end list -->

  -

      -
        \-
        <https://drive.google.com/open?id=17kNGo1XSQ7aJyTf67rYZUB-fPr_ZrP__DFKOd0AiSaA>

# Meeting Agenda

## Call to Order /OWASP Mission

  - Administrative: List of attendees and Agenda bashing (only if
    last-minute changes to the agenda are needed) (5 min)

## Reports

### Chair's Report - Matt Konda

  - Staff OKR
  - Staff meetings
  - Bill payments / Contract Approvals (Many)
  - Taxes Filed - 2015 $2.48M (2014 $1.6M) - primarily from programs
    (conferences + training)
  - Chair Letter for Annual Report (I caused delay here) and for AppSec
  - Redoubled efforts on Glue (DevOps Security Project) - also with
    revived AppSec Pipeline project (Matt T., Aaron Weaver, Adam
    Parsons, etc.)
  - Working with Dev summit for AppSec.
  - Hiring Strategy
  - Discussing Partnerships with Media Companies
  - Chasing Sponsors

### Vice Chair's Report - Josh Sokol

  - I've got nothing major to report here so let's save the time for
    some of the bigger discussions that we need to have.

### Treasurer Report - Andrew van der Stock

Treasurer's report for September 2016
<https://drive.google.com/open?id=17kNGo1XSQ7aJyTf67rYZUB-fPr_ZrP__DFKOd0AiSaA>

  - August Financial Package

[AUGUST 2016 FINANCIAL
REPORT](https://docs.google.com/a/owasp.org/spreadsheets/d/13K1EkF8S43oMfgTuwoAIWi_MZfV7n56HVDlmNl4ukRc/edit?usp=sharing)

[Financial
Analysis](https://docs.google.com/a/owasp.org/document/d/1wEgY1uSZq0imAElCZ0Lny2mFcNOEczFI-ef1zXBcxg0/edit?usp=sharing)

### Secretary Report -Tobias Gondrom

### Updated from Members at Large - Tom Brennan, Michael Coates, and Tobias Gondrom

  - Coates - Chapters

<!-- end list -->

  - Carter - Governance

<!-- end list -->

  - Brennan - Projects

## Staff Reports

  -   - [Director/Operations
        Update](https://docs.google.com/a/owasp.org/document/d/1DKlYVFrzpAjoP1Vb7ABaCbCK2kVoVx768TYWAK_rugc/edit?usp=sharing)
        - Kate
      - [Financial Update - Andrew/Tom - See
        above](https://docs.google.com/a/owasp.org/spreadsheets/d/13K1EkF8S43oMfgTuwoAIWi_MZfV7n56HVDlmNl4ukRc/edit?usp=sharing)
      - [Conference Manager
        Report](https://docs.google.com/a/owasp.org/document/d/1MrFEz71qJbRHrA-KYONDfmEoyhvmyXLHT_sRsN-sk0k/edit?usp=sharing)
        - Laura Grau
      - \[<https://docs.google.com/a/owasp.org/presentation/d/1K14kQrRS_u-1VEcO1dDMd5XxIRurV-e2kojSr_eJ2Ic/edit?usp=sharing>|
        Project Coordinator Update\] - Claudia Casanovas & Matt Tesauro
      - [Community Initiative
        Reports](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1-4fIJfiLa8l02Hf1XBMqRYEiY2z6g4qwln-_ZLQ6GIs/edit)
        - Tiffany Long - TBA
      - [Membership
        Report](https://www.owasp.org/index.php/August_2016_Membership_Report)
        - Kelly Santalucia

## Old Business

All active board proposals are listed
[here](https://drive.google.com/folderview?id=0BxSfMVkfLvslVXdvUFV3NkxucWc&usp=sharing)

  - Motion to invest a portion of unused funds in a ladder CD
    arrangement (Andrew - Deferred to DC)

<!-- end list -->

  -

      -
        \-
        <https://docs.google.com/document/d/1cZOMYzaRnWW_oQd4ON7kBNQcmlx3V4u33Szm8jH2cgU/edit#>

<!-- end list -->

  - Motion to approve changes to FY17 membership rates (Andrew)

<!-- end list -->

  -

      -
        \-
        <https://docs.google.com/a/owasp.org/document/d/1RBy7yRl-qVo49lDL1JeKmhwLElcazrJ7tY4OO5Wwb6U/edit?usp=sharing>

## New Business

  - OWASP / [NYU University, CSAW](https://csaw.engineering.nyu.edu/)
    Co-Marketing Agreement 12k - Motion for Vote for Funding (Tom)
      - CSAW'16 Bronze Level Sponsorship - $12,000
      - Judging opportunity at NYU Tandon CSAW (Nov. 11) and at NYU Abu
        Dhabi CSAW
      - OWASP branded Travel Award (OWASP funding supports the travel
        for US Capture the Flag finalists)
      - OWASP collaboration with OSIRIS Lab students on open-source
        projects in the 16/17 academic year
      - OWASP membership materials included in the CSAW conference bag
        (NYU Tandon)
      - OWASP table at CSAW Industry Fair (NYU Tandon)
      - OWASP logo on CSAW global website, US conference materials and
        signage
      - Public recognition at Awards Ceremony
      - 4 free tickets to the Security Open Source Workshop (NYU Tandon,
        Nov. 10)

<!-- end list -->

  - WEBSITE Project

[Status
Report](https://www.owasp.org/index.php/OWASP_Initiatives_Global_Strategic_Focus/website_project)
(Tom)

  - Projects and external funding - interpretation

Anyone, including OWASP Project Leaders, are able to take OWASP projects
and generate revenue for themselves as long as they abide by the license
terms of that project. If a project leader can convince others to pay
them for something involving their project that doesn't violate the
license, then such activity does not negatively impact their project's
standing with the OWASP Foundation. As long as the project remains Open
Source (FLOSS) and healthy per the OWASP Project Handbook, it can remain
an OWASP project. It is recommended that the project name not match any
external offering to avoid confusion and, in cases where such a external
offering is provided, a disclaimer will be placed on the project page.

Note: This does not change the long standing policy that OWASP
Foundation project funds cannot be spent on the project leader directly
(aka pay them directly) but must, instead, be spent on items to enhance
the project such as graphic art, editing, travel expenses to a project
summit, etc.

  - Canadian Cybersecurity Alliance

Should we participate?
[1](https://drive.google.com/drive/folders/0B0yxedKRQADiOVZWRTV5R2x2ajg?usp=sharing)\[Background\]
(Matt)

  - Proposal to move the November 9th Board Meeting to Tuesday, November
    8th (5-7 PM CDT). (Josh)

## Action Items

## Announcements

## Adjournment

  - Next meeting date/time:
    [October 11](https://www.owasp.org/index.php?title=October_11,_2016)

## Motion to close meeting