Prior Board Meetings -
<https://www.owasp.org/index.php/OWASP_Board_Meetings>
Join:

1\. Please join my meeting.
<https://www3.gotomeeting.com/join/420870222>

2\. Use your microphone and speakers (VoIP) - a headset is recommended.
Or, call in using your telephone.

Dial +1 (914) 339-0026 Access Code: 420-870-222 Audio PIN: Shown after
joining the meeting

Meeting ID: 420-870-222

GoToMeeting® Online Meetings Made Easy™
[Minutes](https://docs.google.com/a/owasp.org/document/d/1goyBm2LAPsN7UgS_jIpXKKRIGYpF-zk_grOQOnL1hs4/edit?hl=en_US)


Operational Board Meeting AppSec USA - 30 mins
1.  2012 Assignment of [Board
Roles](https://www.owasp.org/index.php/About_OWASP#Global_Board_Members)
and Responsibilities -
<https://www.owasp.org/images/d/d6/2011-06-OWASP-BYLAWS.pdf> best person
for the roles
\- [Mike](https://www.owasp.org/index.php/User:MichaelCoates)

\- [Seba](https://www.owasp.org/index.php/User:Sdeleersnyder)

\- [Matt](https://www.owasp.org/index.php/Matt_Tesauro)

\- [Dave](https://www.owasp.org/index.php/User:Wichers)

\- [Eoin](https://www.owasp.org/index.php/Eoin_Keary)

\- [Tom](https://www.owasp.org/index.php/User:Brennan)


2\.
[Employee/Contractor](https://www.owasp.org/index.php/About_OWASP#W2_Employees_of_the_OWASP_Foundation)
Allocation - 30 mins
\- A flat peer employee reporting structure with defined roles for each

\- Global project manager (internal/external projects)

\- Global onsite conference/events coordinator

\- Global membership/PR coordinator

\- Global infrastructure manager

\- Budget allocation for hiring paid staff


3\. Results of
[Committee](https://www.owasp.org/index.php/Global_Committee_Pages)
efforts since 2008 - Current / Consolidation. What is needed from them
in 12/24 months? 30 mins
OWASP recognized the extraordinary contribution of our most active
leaders by engaging them to lead seven committees that report progress
to the OWASP Board of Directors.Each democratically established
committee will focus on a key function or geographic region, such as
OWASP projects, conferences, local chapters, membership and industry
outreach. Local Chapters, Project Leaders, questions about hosting a
conference or starting a chapter should contact the appropriate
committee for assistance, guidance or to suggest best practice. \*\*Note
that in a perfect world we would have your best regional representative
on each committee from your country as a delegate.

\- Conferences - The Global Conferences Committee was created during the
OWASP EU Summit in Portugal 2008. The Global Conferences Committee
exists to coordinate and facilitate OWASP conferences and events
worldwide.

\- Membership - The Membership Committee recommends policies,
procedures, and strategies for enhancing the membership in OWASP both
numerically and qualitatively. The committee provides a written plan and
recommends policies, procedures, and initiatives to assure a growing and
vital membership organization.

\- Chapters - To provide the support required by the local chapters to
thrive and contribute to the overall mission and goals of OWASP.

\- Projects - The mission of the OWASP Global Projects Committee (GPC)
is to foster an active OWASP developer community, facilitate
contributions from OWASP community members, and encourage adoption of
OWASP Projects by the global community at large. Additionally, the GPC
shall provide support and direction for new projects.

\- Education - The Global Education Committee was created during the
OWASP EU Summit in Portugal 2008. The primary purpose of the Global
Education Committee is: to work with the OWASP Education Project to
provide educational materials for both internal and external users,
develop liaisons with educational institutions worldwide.

\- Connections - The OWASP Connections Committee was created during the
OWASP AppSec DC 2009 conference. Our mission is to help the OWASP
foundation communicate to the outside world in a unified and coherent
way. We also assist with internal communication between different OWASP
projects and committees.


Operational Items

4\. International Accounting Update - 10 mins
\*\*Covered on email thread 20-Sept?


5\. OWASP as a Platform Model - 30

\-
<https://docs.google.com/a/owasp.org/document/d/1ea4jWVDziLcZMTJUC5qW5psWYROpB-oPlqyl4Ei2xHA/edit?hl=en_US&authkey=CKycuTY>

6\. Other Business