## Dial In Info

### Notice of Recording

  - Notice to all attendees - board meetings are recorded and publicly
    available as of March, 2013
  - Joining the call acknowledges your awareness of recording and
    consent to be recorded and public dissemination of the recording.
  - [Meeting Audio
    Recording](https://6e97685ba58960d513fd-9a5cad5a20e11694f60874cbf25347e2.ssl.cf2.rackcdn.com/2014-09-16_OWASP_Board_Meeting.mov)

### Time

6:00pm - 9:00pm Mountain Standard Time (US)

### Location

In person at AppSec USA, Denver CO - Homestead room on Lower Level 1
(LL1)

**Teleconference Information:**

<https://www3.gotomeeting.com/join/861328838>

[International Toll Free Calling
Information](International_Toll_Free_Calling_Information "wikilink")

### Attendance Tracker

**[Board Meeting Attendance
Tracker](https://docs.google.com/a/owasp.org/spreadsheet/ccc?key=0ApZ9zE0hx0LNdG5uRzNYZE8ycDFabnBWNkU4SFpwREE)**

### Meeting Minutes

[Meeting
Minutes](https://docs.google.com/a/owasp.org/document/d/1hLWw3oMsHS7csY7REfd4VydlG3CGn_l9JwiLHSldYo0/edit#)

# Reading Material

***It is a requirement as a board member to fully read all material
prior to the start of the meeting***

# Meeting Agenda

## Call to Order /OWASP Mission

  - Administrative (List of attendees and Agenda bashing (only if
    last-minute changes to the agenda are needed) (5 min)

## Reports

### Chairmain's Report - Michael Coates

  -
### Vice Chairmain's Report - Tom Brennan

  -
### Treasurer Report - Josh Sokol

  -
### Secretary Report- Tobias Gondrom

  - briefing on Roberts Rules of Order

### Updated from Members at Large - Fabio Cerullo, Eoin Keary, & Jim Manico

## Reports

  - Executive Director/Operations Update -
    [Narrative](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1ybRJQrQaZ723ncq8mVfBbF7b6Fa7NtMH4A3ASJWSPyE/edit?usp=sharing)
      - [PPT
        format](https://drive.google.com/file/d/0BxjNZI6rYJRKMlFvVXUwTUpabTA/edit?usp=sharing)

<!-- end list -->

  - Matt Tesauro/IT Director Update - \[link:addme IT Directors Report\]
      - Financial Update - \[link:August 2014
        Financials\][1](https://drive.google.com/file/d/0BxjNZI6rYJRKVS0zalA1anE2Z1E/edit?usp=sharing)
      - Director Update - Kate Hartmann - \[link:addme Kate Hartmann
        Update\]
      - Project Manager Update - \[link:addme Samantha Groves Project
        Manager Report\]
      - Membership Update - \[link:addme Membership Report\]
      - IT Update - [IT agenda
        items](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1RHydWbvBppjfPOnnUW3dPEa3KCKa35JNkiYuGk9pPyI/edit?usp=sharing)

### Community Initiative Reports

  -
  -
## Old Business

All active board proposals are listed
[here](https://drive.google.com/folderview?id=0BxSfMVkfLvslVXdvUFV3NkxucWc&usp=sharing)

  - add items

## New Business

All active board proposals are listed
[here](https://drive.google.com/folderview?id=0BxSfMVkfLvslVXdvUFV3NkxucWc&usp=sharing)

  - \[Michael\] Strategic Goals 2015
      - Revisit strategic goal approach -
        [2014](https://www.owasp.org/index.php/OWASP_Strategic_Goals)

<!-- end list -->

  - \[Tobias\] - Project Review committee proposal from Johanna
      - possibly a vote that there are no conflicts and we proceed as
        outlined in committee 2.0 policy.

<!-- end list -->

  - \[Tobias\] - Profit Share models for AppSec conferences and other
    OWASP events
      - I would like to talk about profit share for chapters from AppSec
        conferences and OWASP tour events and chapter days:
        In particular about rules for "profit goal thresholds" and
        sharing of the profit with chapter budgets.
        The reason for this topic is that over the last few months I
        received several feedback from chapters that some of the
        side-effects of the "rules" are confusing or do sound very
        unfair....
        For that I would like to ask Paul or Laura if you could attend
        and provide an update on how we currently do this - or if there
        is a documentation link on the wiki, it would be nice if you
        could send this round beforehand so people can read it before
        the meeting. As an alternative, I am also happy to talk with
        Paul off-list, but I think conferences and events are very
        important
  - \[Josh\] - Default allocation of membership at conferences
      - Going with the topic of profit share, I would also like to
        discuss the allocation of membership fees at conferences. With
        the move to Salesforce as the conference platform, the
        allocation changed from defaulting to the chapters to defaulting
        to the Foundation. As an example, the LASCON registration now
        reads "If you choose membership, and wish to have 40% of your
        fee allocated to your local chapter, please indicate which
        Chapter". Under the RegOnline system, however, this was a
        drop-down box with a list of the Foundation, all chapters, and
        projects with the local chapter organizing the event being the
        default selection. I'm not sure why we are taking money away
        from the chapters like this when these members are clearly being
        recruited by events organized by the local chapters.
  - \[Tobias\] - handling of speakers for conferences
      - AppSec conferences - handling of speakers: Someone has brought
        to my attention the following topic for discussion:
        the question being:
        should we allow the conference team to provide accomodation
        support to non-keynote speakers?
        (the recommendation I received: "If OWASP wants the AppSec
        conferences to grow in size I believe that also the hotel
        expenses for 'normal' speakers should be covered. The current
        model does not attract better speakers to register as they have
        to cover all expenses themselves to give a talk, the current
        model only provides keynote speakers with accommodation. It
        should not only be an honour to speak at an OWASP conference, we
        as OWASP should actively support this knowledge sharing by
        stimulating speakers and meet them with their expenses and take
        care of the hotel for them. I am aware that in the current model
        the Appsec conferences are used to generate revenue for the
        foundation, but I believe that you have to spend money to make
        money: to invest into the speakers, which in turn will attract
        more attendees and therefore generate more income.")

<!-- end list -->

  - Global Conferences
      - <https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1P5P3q-poLmDdH7PuWhvbJhOGna98d7FZoKGsfYkTiBQ/edit?usp=sharing>

<!-- end list -->

  - \[name of person adding topic\] - topic
      - \[vote needed | discussion topic\]

## Action Items

  -
## Announcements

## Adjournment

  - Next meeting date/time:

## Motion to close meeting