# Session Management Framework

## Overview

Session management is an important underlying function in modern web
applications. Keeping sessions secure is one of the most important
things a framework must do to ensure that applications built on that
framework do not suffer from security flaws.

## Session Data

Session data should be stored server-side and never transmitted to the
client unless necessary. The framework should also provide a simple and
easy way for the developer to access, add, delete, or modify session
data.

## Session ID

### Generating

The session ID should always be generated by the framework, and no other
party should be able to manually select a session ID. The ID should be
generated in a crytographically strong fashion. The session ID should
always be generated based on random numbers, and it should never be
created with any session specific or environment specific data.

### Storage

The Session ID should be stored in a cookie which the client then
submits to the server with every request. This cookie should have the
HTTPONLY and SECURE flags set by default.

The framework should also provide an easy way for the developer to
change the name of the session ID cookie to a custom value to avoid
fingerprinting.

### Cookie rewriting

URL rewriting is not recommended.

## Ending a session

The framework should provide a simple method for a developer to remove a
session. When that function is called, the session data itself should be
purged from server memory, the session ID should no longer be kept as a
valid ID, and the cookie should be removed from the client browser.