## The presentation

Cryptographic hash functions play a central role in applications of
cryptography. In spite of this, there has been only limited interest for
theoretical work on the definitions and foundations. Until recently,
there were about hundred practical designs, of which more than three
quarter are broken, and the most widely used hash functions were MD5 and
SHA-1. Cryptanalysis during the 1990s showed that these functions oered
only a very limited security margin, and in 2004 Wang et al. managed to
improve the existing attacks substantially: finnding collisions for MD5
became very easy; for SHA-1 a substantial reduction of the security
margin was obtained. This breakthrough has resulted in a flurry of
research, resulting in both more theoretical work and new constructions.
NIST has announced in November 2007 that it would organize the SHA-3
competition \[3\], with as goal to select a new hash function family by
2012. On October 31, 2008, 64 submissions were received, 51 of which
have been selected for the first round; on July 24, 2009 NIST announced
that 14 hash functions were selected for the second round, namely:
BLAKE, Blue Midnight Wish, CubeHash, ECHO, Fugue, Grstl, Hamsi, JH,
Keccak, Luffa, Shabal, SHAvite-3, SIMD, and Skein. An overview of
security and performance results on the candidates can be found at \[2\]
and \[1\] respectively. This talk presents a brief outline of the state
of the art of hash functions at the beginning of the second round of the
SHA-3 competition and tries to clarify the context in which this
competition is developing.

*References*:

  - \[1\] eBASH, ECRYPT Benchmarking of All Submitted Hashes,
    <http://bench.cr.yp.to/ebash.html>
  - \[2\] ECRYPT II, The SHA-3 Zoo,
    <http://ehash.iaik.tugraz.at/wiki/The_SHA-3_Zoo>
  - \[3\] NIST SHA-3 Competition, <http://csrc.nist.gov/groups/ST/hash/>

## The speaker

![Bartpreneel_small.jpg](Bartpreneel_small.jpg
"Bartpreneel_small.jpg")Bart Preneel received the Electrical Engineering
degree and the Doctorate in Applied Sciences from the Katholieke
Universiteit Leuven (Belgium). He is currently full professor (gewoon
hoogleraar) at the Katholieke Universiteit Leuven. He has been visiting
professors at the Technical University of Denmark (2007), Graz
University of Technology in Austria (1997-2006), the University of
Bergen in Norway (1997-2001), Ruhr-Universitaet Bochum in Germany
(2001-2002) and at the University of Ghent (1994-2002). He is a
scientific advisor of Philips Research (the Netherlands). During the
academic year 1993-1994, he was a research fellow of the EECS Department
of the University of California at Berkeley. His main research interests
are cryptology and information security. He has authored and co-authored
more than 200 scientific publications and is inventor of two patents. He
is president of the IACR (International Association for Cryptologic
Research) and a member of the Editorial Board of the Journal of
Cryptology, the IEEE Transactions on Information Foresnsics and
Security, and the International Journal of Information and Computer
Security. He is also a Member of the Accreditation Board of the Computer
and Communications Security Reviews (ANBAR, UK). He has participated to
more than 20 research projects sponsored by the European Commission, for
four of these as project manager. He is currently project manager of the
European Network of Excellence ECRYPT (http://www.ecrypt.eu.org), which
groups more than 250 researchers in the area of cryptology and
watermarking. He was program (co-) chairman of 9 international
conferences (including Eurocrypt 2000 and SAC 2005) and has been a
member of more than 100 international program committees. He has been
invited speaker at 25 international conferences and workshops. He has
lectured at 30 international Summer Schools in 15 countries. In 2003, he
has received the European Information Security Award in the area of
academic research, and he received an honorary Certified Information
Security Manager (CISM) designation by the Information Systems Audit and
Control Association (ISACA). Since 1989, he is a Belgian expert in
working group ISO/IEC JTC1/SC27/WG2 (Security Techniques and
Mechanisms), where he has edited five international standards. He is
president of L-SEC vzw. (Leuven Security Excellence Consortium), an
association of 50 companies and research institutions in the area of
e-security.

[Category:OWASP_AppSec_Conference](Category:OWASP_AppSec_Conference "wikilink")
[Category:OWASP_BeNeLux_09](Category:OWASP_BeNeLux_09 "wikilink")