# Welcome to OWASP Singapore Chapter

Welcome to the Singapore chapter homepage. The chapter leader is [Wong
Onn Chee](mailto:ocwong@owasp.org).

**[Click
here](https://groups.google.com/a/owasp.org/forum/#!forum/singapore-chapter/join)
to join the local chapter mailing list.**

## Participation

OWASP Foundation ([Overview
Slides](https://docs.google.com/a/owasp.org/presentation/d/10wi1EWFCPZwCpkB6qZaBNN8mR2XfQs8sLxcj9SCsP6c/edit?usp=sharing))
is a professional association of global members and is open to anyone
interested in learning more about software security. Local chapters are
run independently and guided by the
[Chapter_Leader_Handbook](https://www.owasp.org/index.php/Chapter_Leader_Handbook).
As a [501(c)(3)](https://www.owasp.org/index.php/About_OWASP) non-profit
professional association your support and sponsorship of any meeting
venue and/or refreshments is tax-deductible. Financial contributions
should only be made online using the authorized online chapter donation
button. To be a SPEAKER at ANY OWASP Chapter in the world simply review
the [speaker
agreement](https://www.owasp.org/index.php/Speaker_Agreement) and then
contact the local chapter leader with details of what OWASP PROJECT,
independent research or related software security topic you would like
to present on.

## Sponsorship/Membership

![<File:Btn_donate_SM.gif>](Btn_donate_SM.gif "File:Btn_donate_SM.gif")
[Donate](https://www.regonline.com/builder/site/Default.aspx?EventID=1044369)
to this chapter or become a local chapter supporter.

Or consider the value of Individual, Corporate, or Academic Supporter
membership. [Ready to become a
member?](https://myowasp.force.com/MemberAppRegion)
![Join_Now_BlueIcon.JPG](Join_Now_BlueIcon.JPG
"Join_Now_BlueIcon.JPG")

# Upcoming Meetup

### Mar 2019 Meetup: HTTP2

**Date**: 20 March 2019 730pm to 830pm

**Venue**: Akamai Singapore office, 1 Raffles Place, \#17-61, One
Raffles Place Tower 2, Singapore 048616, Singapore

The presentation will discuss the relatively new HTTP2 protocol that has
been recently adopted as a standard and widely adopted. Most browsers
and web servers can support it, however relatively little security
research has been done on the new protocol. There are very few tools to
perform security testing, and penetration testing is challenging. There
will be a demo of a vulnerability being exploited over HTTP2.

**Speaker**: Adrien de Beaupre

Adrien de Beaupre is a Principal SANS instructor and works as an
independent consultant in beautiful Ottawa, Ontario. His work experience
includes course development, technical instruction, vulnerability
assessment, and penetration testing. He is a member of the SANS Internet
Storm Center (isc.sans.edu) and is actively involved with the
information security community. He is the lead author and lead
instructor of two SANS courses; SEC642 Advanced Web Applicication
Penetration Testing, Ethical Hacking, and Exploitation Techniques as
well as SEC460 Enterprise Threat and Vulnerability Assessment.

Please RSVP your attendance at https://www.meetup.com/SGSecurityMG/

Many thanks to Akamai for their kind sponsorship of venue and F\&B (no
beer though)\!

### Mar 2019 Meetup \#2: ReDTunnel: Explore Internal Networks via DNS Rebinding Tunnel

**Date**: 28 March 2019 730pm to 830pm

**Venue**: F5 Singapore office, Suntec City Tower Five, 5 Temasek
Boulevard \#08-01/02, Singapore 038985, Singapore

Did you wonder how you could browse target's internal network without
deploying anything on the victim machine? Sounds like magic, right?
Imagine that you could have a one-click setup that will provide you a
magic tunnel from the outside world. That's when we came up with the
"ReD Tunnel" idea. The design goal was to use tools that exist on the
victim's device, like the browser, rather than rely on 0days to stay
below the radar of the most advanced AV. To create this new capability,
we decided to combine two concepts: JavaScript reconnaissance techniques
and the DNS rebinding attack. Open your browser, wait until the victim
visits your website and start browsing the internal websites in their
network. Now, when red-teaming you could really "be a guest, but feel at
home".

**Speaker**: Tomar Zait

Tomer Zait (Principal Security Researcher at F5Networks) worked in a
range of professions in the security industry (Web Application Firewall
Integrator, Penetration Tester, Application Security Engineer, Security
Researcher, Etc.). During this time, he developed open-source projects
(most of them are security tools). His projects include: x64dbgpy;
PyMultitor (Presented In BlackHat Arsenal ASIA/US/EU 2017);
SubDomain-Analyzer; AutoBrowser; phantom-requests, and more. Tomer
writes regularly for online security magazines and is a 4-time winner of
the Israeli Cyber Challenge (CTF).

Please RSVP your attendance at https://www.meetup.com/SGSecurityMG/

# Past Meetups

### 2019

#### Feb 2019 Meetup: How to make your software security program successful

**Date**: 20 February 2019 730pm to 830pm

**Venue**: Akamai Singapore office, 1 Raffles Place, \#17-61, One
Raffles Place Tower 2, Singapore 048616, Singapore

What is the common between mobile applications, Web application, IOT
devices, OS client applications?

They are all developed from software.

As new software deployment accelerate through wider adoption of DevOps
methodology, maintaining software security is crucial to you and your
organization. Is your software security program up to the challenge? If
you’re not getting the most out of your software security program, come
and join this session which will provide the recommendations on how to
improve your program for better, faster results.

**Speaker**: Jason Khoo, CISSP, CSSLP, CISA

Jason is the Technical Account Manager from Checkmarx. He has extensive
experience in application security consulting services and focusing on
secure software analysis.

He works with organizations that consist of internal and external
development teams as well as the security team who are mostly driven by
audits and compliance. He is passionate about the software security and
the different software testing methodologies, and will share his ideas
and workflow with the audience.

Please RSVP your attendance at https://www.meetup.com/SGSecurityMG/

Many thanks to Akamai for their kind sponsorship of venue and F\&B (no
beer though)\!

#### Jan 2019 Meetup: Security is everybody's job

**Date**: 16 January 2018 730pm to 830pm

**Venue**: Akamai Singapore office, 1 Raffles Place, \#17-61, One
Raffles Place Tower 2, Singapore 048616, Singapore

In DevOps everyone performs security work, whether they like it or not. 
With a ratio of 100/10/1 for Development, Operations, and Security, it’s
impossible for the security team alone to get it all done. We must build
security into each of “the three ways”; automating and/or improving
efficiency of all security activities, speeding up feedback loops for
security related activities, and providing continuous learning
opportunities in relation to security. While it may sound like the
security team needs to learn to sprint, give feedback, and teach at the
same time, the real challenge is creating a culture that embodies the
mindset that security is everybody's job.

**Speaker**: Tanya Janca

Tanya Janca is a senior cloud security advocate for Microsoft,
specializing in application and cloud security; evangelizing software
security and advocating for developers and operations folks alike
through public speaking, her open source project OWASP DevSlop, and
various forms of teaching via workshops, blogs and community events. As
an ethical hacker, OWASP Project and Chapter Leader, Women in Security
and Technology (WIST) chapter leader, software developer and
professional computer geek of 20+ years, she is a person who is truly
fascinated by the ‘science’ of computer science.

Pertinent links:

<https://medium.com/@shehackspurple>

<https://DevSlop.co>

<https://twitter.com/shehackspurple>

Many thanks to Akamai for their kind sponsorship of venue and F\&B (no
beer though)\!

### 2018

#### Oct 2018 Meetup: Lessons from Protecting a Major Conference: What You Do Not Know Will Haunt You

Date: 17 October 2018 730pm to 830pm

Venue: Akamai Singapore office, 1 Raffles Place, \#16-61, One Raffles
Place Tower 2, Singapore 048616, Singapore

In this session, lessons drawn from protecting a major security
conference will be shared. (Identity of the conference will be hidden
for confidentiality). These lessons can be easily adopted in most
organisations at zero to low costs, so there is no excuse for infosec
pros not to implement.

Besides looking at IoC or IoA, a new indicator will be proposed for
security monitoring with more advance notice and more cost efficient
protection.

Lastly, on a side note with no relation to the major security
conference, common mistakes made during onboarding of CDNs will also be
shared and appropriate suitable controls will be shared with the
attendees. Hopefully, we will not see any exposed luncheon meat or
seaweed when we onboard CDNs. ;-)

Download the presentation here
<https://www.owasp.org/images/a/aa/OWASP_SG_Oct_2018_Lessions_from_Protecting_a_Major_Conference_What_You_Do_Not_Know_Will_Haunt_You.pdf>

Speaker: Onn Chee

Onn Chee is a n00b in infosec for more than 18 years.

#### Sep 2018 Meetup: The Three Ways Of Software Security; Revolutionizing AppSec Using DevOps methods

Date: 19 September 2018 700pm to 830pm

Venue: JP Morgan Singapore office, JP Morgan, 168 Robinson Rd, Capital
Tower, Singapore 068912

Just as DevOps was a new way of thinking that forever changed software
development, application security is in the midst of its own
transformation. Taking a page from an IT best seller Gene Kim’s “The
Phoenix Project,” this session will provide a new definition of
DevSecOps as we explore the “Three Ways of Software Security:”

1\. Establish security work flow with a direct line-of-sight to business
value

2\. Ensure instant security feedback with continuous assessment and
visibility

3\. Encourage a security culture by reducing builder-breaker cycle time

Audience members will leave with a refreshed way of thinking about
AppSec and DevOps, as well as an understanding for how to apply
redefined DevSecOps within their own organizations.

<u>Speaker: Jeff Williams</u>

A pioneer in application security, Jeff Williams has over 20 years of
security leadership experience. He speaks frequently on cutting-edge
AppSec technologies and has helped secure code at hundreds of major
enterprises. Jeff was the Co-Founder and Global Chair of OWASP
Foundation for eight years, creating the OWASP Top 10, OWASP Enterprise
Security API, OWASP Application Security Verification Standard, XSS
Prevention Cheat Sheet and etc. In recent years, Jeff founded Contrast
Security and Aspect Security which deliver innovative AppSec solutions
and services throughout the world. Aspect Security was acquired by E\&Y
in early 2018. He has a BA from Virginia, an MA from George Mason, and a
JD from Georgetown.

Many thanks to JP Morgan and Thomas for agreeing to be our venue sponsor
in such short notice.

You can download the presentation slides from
<https://www.owasp.org/images/7/76/OWASP-SG-Sep-2018-Meetup.pdf.pdf>

#### Jul 2018 Meetup: IoT Security Research

Date: 23 July 2018 730pm to 900pm

Venue: NUSS Suntec City Guild House, 3 Temasek Boulevard, \#02- 401/402
Suntec City Mall, Singapore 038983

Come and learn about the findings from F5 Lab’s extensive original
research into mapping IoT Thingbots such as Mirai, Persirai and Reaper.
The research also tracks which countries appear to be attacking which
other countries. Lots of rich discussion around IoT DDOS, the new IoT
security legislation and some promising long term protocols that may fix
all of this.

F\&B will be provided with thanks to F5\!

<u>Speaker: David Holmes</u>

Based in Asia Pacific, David Holmes is the Global Security Evangelist
for F5 Networks. In this role, Holmes is spokesman, researcher and
evangelist for F5’s threat intelligence division, with an emphasis on
cryptography, distributed denial of service attacks, and the Internet of
Things. He speaks at conferences such as RSA, InfoSec and Gartner Data
Center.

Holmes authors white papers on security topics such as global
cryptography trends and modern DDoS threat spectrum. He has also written
for industry magazines such as the SCMagazine and Network World. These
days,he writes regularly about vulnerabilities, technical solutions and
the security industry for SecurityWeek.com and F5 Labs.

He joined F5 Networks in 2001, and, as a Principal Software Engineer,
where he designed many of the system and core security features. Holmes
has 20 years of experience in security and product engineering.

Prior to F5, Holmes was a Vice President of Engineering at Dvorak
Development (in Boulder, CO) and a Senior Software Engineer (Security)
at CyberSafe, Inc.

Holmes majored in Computer Science and Engineering Physics at the
University of Colorado at Boulder. For public speaking, Holmes has a
Competent Communicator award from Toastmasters International and other
public speaking awards.

Many thanks to F5 for their sponsorship.

#### May 2018 Meetup: Introduction to CVSS

Date: 21 May 2018 730pm to 900pm

Venue: Akamai Singapore office, 1 Raffles Place, \#16-61, One Raffles
Place Tower 2, Singapore 048616, Singapore

The "Common Vulnerability Scoring System" (CVSSv3) provides a way to
capture the principal characteristics of a vulnerability and produce a
numerical score reflecting its severity. The numerical score can then be
translated into a qualitative representation (such as low, medium, high,
and critical) to help organizations properly assess and prioritize their
vulnerability management processes.

<u>Speaker: Christian Heinrich </u>

Christian Heinrich has presented at the OWASP Conferences in Australia,
Europe and USA and OWASP Chapters in the Netherlands, London and Sydney
and Melbourne, Australia, ToorCon (USA), Shmoocon (USA), BlackHat (Asia
and USA), SecTor (Canada), CONFidence (Europe), Hack In The Box
(Europe), SyScan (Singapore), B-Sides (Australia), RUXCON (Australia),
and AusCERT (Australia)

cmlh has a Public Profile on LinkedIn at
<http://www.linkedin.com/in/ChristianHeinrich>

Pizza and venue are kindly sponsored by Akamai. Beer not included. ;-)

Many thanks to Akamai again for their sponsorship.

#### Apr 2018 Meetup: DevSecOps In Practice

Date: 18 April 2018 730pm to 900pm (changed from 17 April)

Venue: Akamai Singapore office, 1 Raffles Place, \#16-61, One Raffles
Place Tower 2, Singapore 048616, Singapore

Software development is pressed for faster and faster release cycles
with acceptable quality, budget and security. As movements like CI, CD
and Devops aim to cut down on release cycles, it's security's job to
help control the risk. The risk landscape is complex as modern
development practices increasingly consume more and more third party
code. Traditional methods do not cut it anymore - it's time for
DevSecOps. This session gives an overview of how companies have
implemented DevSecOps practices in their own delivery pipelines and how
this can help increase developer awareness of risks affecting them.
We'll walk an example CICD Pipeline and explore how security has been
embedded as a part of it, how the movement is shaping up and how
standards are starting to follow suite.

<u>Speaker: Cameron Townsend</u>

Cameron Townshend Bsc, MSysDev, MCP CP Snr, MCSD - has extensive experience building large mission critical applications. Initial project lead on NSW Biosecurity Information System. Developed the WeatherChannel.com.au website. This site won 2010 Kentico site of the year for Integration and 2011 Astra award for Most Outstanding Use of Technology. He is both a hands-on developer and a skilled communicator and leader of project teams.

Pizza and venue are kindly sponsored by Akamai. Beer not included. ;-)

Many thanks to Akamai again for their sponsorship.

#### Jan 2018 Meetup: "Accuracy will set you free" - The New Era of AppSec with Interactive Application Security Testing (IAST) and Runtime Application Self Protection (RASP)" and "Hunt for Cold War-like Sleeper Malware"

Date: 25 January 2018 730 pm to 900 pm

Venue: Akamai Singapore office, 1 Raffles Place, \#16-61, One Raffles
Place Tower 2, Singapore 048616, Singapore

**`Topic``   ``A:``   ``"Accuracy``   ``will``   ``set``   ``you``
 ``free"``   ``-``   ``The``   ``New``   ``Era``   ``of``   ``AppSec``
 ``with``   ``Interactive``   ``Application``   ``Security``
 ``Testing``   ``(IAST)``   ``and``   ``Runtime``   ``Application``
 ``Self``   ``Protection``   ``(RASP)`**

Application attacks continue to be the \#1 source of data breaches; why
after decades of efforts and billion dollars security investments it is
still the \#1 source of data breaches?

What are the discrepancies and inadequacies in the current security
postures and AppSec technologies?

Limited context and visibility of the application under test or under
protection produces inaccurate and erroneous results which dramatically
diminishes the effectiveness of current AppSec solutions and dev team
productivities. Sharing the insights of the innovative AppSec
technologies such as IAST and RASP which are delivering unprecedented
accuracy and speed for both application security testing and application
runtime protection.

See how these revolutionary AppSec technologies are freeing scarce and
valuable technical resources to be better allocated.

<u>Speaker: Jeff Chen</u>

Jeff is the VP of Contrast Security APAC. He started Parasoft
Asia/Pacific in 2003 and manage the Parasoft APAC operation until 2012.
He has extensive experience in Static Analysis, Unit Testing, Service
Virtualization, Test Automation and SDLC processes. Prior to Parasoft;
Jeff was involved with multiple Cyber Defense projects with Taiwan MND;
representing Northrop Grumman’s Network Early Warning Systems (NEWS) and
etc.

**`Topic``   ``B:``   ``"Hunt``   ``for``   ``Cold``   ``War-like``
 ``Sleeper``   ``Malware"`**

In a short, 30mins presentation, Onn Chee will walk through a case study
of a Cold War-like malware which had masqueraded as a "goodware" and was
actively used by users for more than a year without any adverse impact.
Learn why the organisation's enterprise-grade sandbox and EDR solutions
were not able to detect the sleeper malware. Just like the Cold Ware
sleeper agents who browsed the newspapers' classifieds every day for
activation code, the sleeper malware came on live after more than 1 year
of usage and wiped off all user data in the users' endpoint. In the end,
it is still the manual grunt work of investigation that helps to
identify this sleeper malware. A demo version of the malware was
recreated and will be used to demo the MO of the sleeper malware.

(All identities - organisation, security products and malware - will be
anonymised due to NDA)

You can download the slides here
<https://www.owasp.org/images/e/e2/OWASP_SG_Jan_2018_-_Hunt_for_a_Cold_War-like_Sleeper_Malware.pdf>

<u>Speaker: Onn Chee</u>

Onn Chee has been a n00b in infosec for 18 years.

Pizza and venue are kindly sponsored by Akamai. Beer not included. ;-)

Many thanks to Akamai again for their sponsorship.

### 2017

#### Aug 2017 Meetup: APNIC Security Engagement in the AP Region

Date: 16 August 2017 730 pm to 930 pm

Venue: Akamai Singapore office, 1 Raffles Place, \#16-61, One Raffles
Place Tower 2, Singapore 048616, Singapore

**`APNIC``   ``Security``   ``Engagement``   ``in``   ``the``   ``AP``
 ``region`**

APNIC is one of the 5 regional internet registries responsible for
allocating and registration of Internet number resources (IP addresses &
AS Number). In the last 3 years APNIC has been working with different
stakeholders in the AP region to promoting security best practices in
areas like security incident handling &  response. In addition to
sharing his experience, Adli will also highlight some of the
opportunities and challenges AP region.

<u>Speaker: Adli Wahid</u>

Adli Wahid is a Senior Internet Security Specialist at the Asia Pacific
Network Information Centre (APNIC) based in Brisbane, Australia.  He is
responsible APNIC’s cyber security engagement and capacity building
activities in the region.  Adli is also a board member of the Forum of
Incident Response and Security Teams (FIRST.org). Prior to joining
APNIC, he was the Head of Malaysia CERT (MyCERT) and a member of Bank of
Tokyo Mitsubishi-UFJ CERT (MUFG-CERT).

Pizza and venue are kindly sponsored by Akamai. Beer not included. ;-)

Many thanks to Akamai again for their sponsorship.

#### Jun 2017 Meetup: "Cyber Technical Surveillance & Counter Measures (TSCM) – Looking at the physical attacks on IT Infrastructure using covert data taps and transmission devices" and "Singapore Threat Brief"

Date: 14 June 2017 730 pm to 930 pm

Venue: Akamai Singapore office, 1 Raffles Place, \#16-61, One Raffles
Place Tower 2, Singapore 048616, Singapore

**`Topic``   ``A:``   ``Cyber``   ``Technical``   ``Surveillance``
 ``&``   ``Counter``   ``Measures``   ``(TSCM)``   ``–``   ``Looking``
 ``at``   ``the``   ``physical``   ``attacks``   ``on``   ``IT``
 ``Infrastructure``   ``using``   ``covert``   ``data``   ``taps``
 ``and``   ``transmission``   ``devices`**

Traditional Technical Surveillance has changed from large audio and
video eavesdropping devices heavily reliant on Radio Frequency to
miniaturised devices that use cellular & wifi. No longer do you need a
static listening post nearby but you can access the covert feeds
anywhere in world through cheap readily available technology.

This talk will look at how the world of technical surveillance has
changed, why it uses cellular & wifi, what is a cyber TSCM, gaps in
current IT Pen tests and how 5G will accelerate the threat.

<u>Speaker: Jason Wells</u>

Jason is the CEO of QCC Global (Asia), a company that specialises in
Technical Surveillance and Counter Measures (TSCM) and Digital
Forensics.

His 30 years of experience spans public and private sector from leading
the: 

\- Global team for Business Risk & Control Management within HSBC
Financial Crime & Regulatory Compliance, 

\- Corporate Security & Anti Illicit Trade Manager in British American
Tobacco in the Middle East, 

\- UK military attaché in Damascus, Syria or the Head of Overseas
Intelligence team for the British SAS, special forces

Having a honours degree in IT, was qualified as a CISSP and holds post
graduate diplomas in Security & Risk Management and Anti Money
Laundering Jason has both extensive experience and technical expertise.

**`Topic``   ``B: Singapore``   ``Threat``   ``Brief`**

The threat environment on the Internet is a constantly evolving arms
race, and the activities of adversaries vary greatly by geography,
industry, and even individual websites. As a result, security managers
often seek the latest attack information that is relevant to their
specific country and industry in order to predict what they should look
for in the present and how attacks will evolve in the future. The
Singapore threat report serves to inform approaches for security
professionals to improve their defensive posture.

<u>2nd Speaker: Dawson Sewo (CISSP, ITIL, CCSK) – Senior Enterprise
Security Architect, Akamai Technologies Asia-Pacific & Japan</u>

As an Enterprise Security Architect in Akamai, Dawson focuses on network
security and application security.  He has more than 16 years of IT and
security experience working in telco, managed hosting and cloud security
companies. He has also obtained numerous certifications around areas of
network, hosting and security.

Pizza and venue are kindly sponsored by Akamai. Beer not included. ;-)

Many thanks to Akamai again for their sponsorship.

#### Mar 2017 Meetup: "Have I been pwned?" and "Your Arsenal to bypass restrictions"

Date: 28 March 2017 730 pm to 930 pm

Venue: Akamai Singapore office, 1 Raffles Place, \#16-61, One Raffles
Place Tower 2, Singapore 048616, Singapore

**`Topic``   ``A:``   ``Have``   ``I``   ``been``   ``pwned?`**

"Have I been pwned?" allows you to search across multiple data breaches
to see if your email addresses or aliases has been compromised by
Duowan, Taobao, Tianya, etc. Maltego is a link analysis application of
technical infrastructure and/or social media networks from disparate
sources of Open Source INTelligence (OSINT). Maltego is listed on the
Top 10 Security Tools for Kali Linux by Network World and Top 125
Network Security Tools by the Nmap Project.

The integration of "Have I been pwned?" with Maltego presents these
breaches in an easy to understand graph format that can be enriched with
other sources of data.

Speaker: Christian Heinrich

Christian Heinrich has presented at the OWASP Conferences in Australia,
Europe and USA and OWASP Chapters in the Netherlands, London and Sydney
and Melbourne, Australia, ToorCon (USA), Shmoocon (USA), BlackHat (Asia
and USA), SecTor (Canada), CONFidence (Europe), Hack In The Box
(Europe), SyScan (Singapore), B-Sides (Australia), RUXCON (Australia),
and AusCERT (Australia)

cmlh has a Public Profile on LinkedIn at
<http://www.linkedin.com/in/ChristianHeinrich>

**`Topic``   ``B:``   ``Your``   ``Arsenal``   ``to``   ``bypass``
 ``restrictions``   ``based``   ``on``   ``IP``   ``counters`**

PyMultiTor tool – Many mitigation devices (FW, WAF, Anti-DoS) are
detecting attacks based on certain IP address that sends many requests.
The tools showcases that it’s not enough to have such protection. It is
unique because it is easily integrated in any attacking tool (written in
python programming language).

Speaker: Tomer Zait

Tomer Zait, from F5 Labs (part of F5 Network), has worked in a range of
professions in the security industry (W.A.F Integrator, Penetration
Tester, Application Security Engineer, Security Researcher, Etc.).
During this time he developed open source projects (most of them are
security tools). Tomer is a 3 Times Winner of the Israeli Cyber
Challenge (CTF). His projects include: x64dbgpy; PyMultitor;
SubDomain-Analyzer; AutoBrowser; phantom-requests.

Pizza and venue are kindly sponsored by Akamai. Beer not included. ;-)

Many thanks to Akamai again for their sponsorship.

#### Feb 2017 Meetup: Attacker’s Perspective of Active Directory

Date: 28 Feb 2017 730 pm to 930 pm

Venue: Akamai Singapore office, 1 Raffles Place, \#16-61, One Raffles
Place Tower 2, Singapore 048616, Singapore

This talk is a compilation of Red Team’s Tactics, Techniques and
Procedures to fully compromise an Active Directory environment. The
emphasis will be on post-exploitation techniques that attackers/red
teamers have been abusing for years, however they were not well
documented until recent years. Apart from offensive techniques,
mitigation and detection methods will be covered as well.

Pizza and venue are kindly sponsored by Akamai. Beer not included. ;-)

Speaker: Sunny Neo Sunny is a Penetration Tester with BT Security,
Ethical Hacking Centre of Excellence, a global team that performs
security testing for various industries. Besides his day job, he teaches
Ethical Hacking at Temasek Polytechnic as an Adjunct Lecturer, and is
one of the CREST Assessors in Singapore. He is certified with CCT APP,
OSCE, OSCP and GXPN. He has 1 year plus of working experience.

### 2016

#### Dec 2016 Meetup 2: Conducting Threat Modeling in Agile Development

Date: 14 Dec 2016 730 pm to 930 pm

Venue: Akamai Singapore office, 1 Raffles Place, \#16-61, One Raffles
Place Tower 2, Singapore 048616, Singapore

With the increasing demand for continuous application delivery in the
fast pace application development methodologies, we see the rapid change
in security verification & validation activities also. On the same way,
traditional threat modelling has to be adapted to fit into agile
development culture. This session will focus on how we can introduce
automaticity and repeatability in the threat modeling process and
identify the threats in the application. Also how we can map the threat
modeling outputs to security requirements to give better visibility to
release manager or product owner about the possible business risk.

Pizza and venue are kindly sponsored by Akamai. Beer not included. ;-)

Speaker: Suman Sourav Suman has more than a decade experience in
designing software security defense programs and is passionate about
integrating security into the development life-cycle. He has worked with
various financial and non-financial institutions to implement software
security life-cycle.

Suman believes in a purpose driven life, acting with integrity, honesty,
and honour. Professionally he looks to add value to his skills by
reaching out, learning, and building relationships with those in his
community, as well as promoting those he believes in.

His complete profile is available on <http://www.sumansourav.com>

#### Dec 2016 Meetup: Ransomware in Web Apps

Date: 5 Dec 2016 730 pm to 930 pm

Venue: Akamai Singapore office, 1 Raffles Place, \#16-61, One Raffles
Place Tower 2, Singapore 048616, Singapore

In recent years, ransomware has become a major problem for individuals
and enterprises alike. A large attack surface, low barriers to entry and
good rewards make it a very attractive option for attackers. We are
already seeing hackers try out new infection vectors like social media
(http://www.digitaltrends.com/computing/locky-ransomware-self-downloading-image-files/)
and targets like IoT and PoS systems
(http://www.theverge.com/2016/11/27/13758412/hackers-san-francisco-light-rail-system-ransomware-cybersecurity-muni).
In this talk, we will demonstrate and show PoC exploits on how
ransomware can move up the stack from desktop apps to enterprise apps
using a novel attack vector of library dependencies and package
managers. Protecting and securing your software supply toolchain is
going to be of paramount importance against such threats.

Food and drinks are provided, courtesy of Akamai\!

Speaker: Mark Curphey Mark Curphey is CEO of SourceClear, the security
company for software developers. He founded OWASP (http://www.owasp.org)
when he ran software security at Charles Schwab and has written chapters
on software security in books published by O’Reilly.

#### Jul 2018 Meetup: Data Exfiltration over DNS

Date: 12 July 2016 7 pm to 9 pm

Venue: BridgingMinds Network, 190 Middle Road, \#12-10/11 Fortune
Centre, Singapore 188979

Come and join us to learn how data can be leaked via DNS. Learn how such
techniques can bypass NGFW and watch a live demo of how such attack can
occur. The speaker will also walk through actual case studies of past
incidents.

Food and drinks are provided. ;-)

Speaker: Starting off as a military based SOC operator, Yeo Deng Jie
(DJ) carries with him over 10 years of network security experiences
working with leading companies like AlgoSec, Palo Alto Networks and
Infoblox. With cyber defense always at the top of his mind, he provided
network security assessment workshops for many organizations in ASEAN,
reviewed their network security posture for vulnerabilities. In a few
occasions, DJ was called back by the organization when the security gaps
he highlighted were subsequently exploited by the attackers. In
Infoblox, DJ focuses on data leakage over DNS, defense against DNS DDoS
and exploits, which are some of the least addressed security gaps in
many organizations today.

### 2015

#### Dec 2015 Meetup: Learn Web Attacks using OWASP WebGoat, A Demo

Date: 15 Dec 2015 7:30 pm

Venue: Akamai Singapore office, 1 Raffles Place, \#16-61, One Raffles
Place Tower 2, Singapore 048616

A lot of us talk about various security attacks on the web, but do we
actually know how they are done in real time and where's the problem in
coding? This demo will showcase how attackers are misusing the web
application to bypass security controls. Following attacks will be
covered in the demo: 1. Path Traversal attack 2. Bypassing functional
access control 3. Bypassing data access control 4. AJAX security
loopholes (DOM injection, XML Injection, JSON injection, Silent
transaction attacks) 5. Cross Site Scripting (Reflected, Stored and DOM
based) 6. SQL Injection (numeric and string based) 7. Malicious file
uploads and impact on back-end servers This is purely a demo and doesn't
involve any PPT. So, this is only for technical people.

Speaker: Viswanath S Chirravuri has over 10 years of experience in
Software Security. Currently he is a senior Security Architect at a
leading digital security company, GEMALTO. He actively holds industry
certifications like CISSP, CEH, GWAPT, Security+, PMP and SCJP.
Viswanath is accredited by CA Technologies on Identity and Access
management suite of products. Over the past few years, he has been
giving training's on various SAST and DAST tools to application security
engineers across different industries.

#### Nov 2015 Meetup: Security In The World Of CI-CD

Date: 26 Nov 2015 730pm

Venue: Akamai Singapore office, 1 Raffles Place, \#16-61, One Raffles
Place Tower 2, Singapore 048616

Continuous Delivery (CD) is a set of practices and principles in
software engineering aimed at, building, testing, and releasing
software, faster and more frequently. These principles help reduce the
cost, time and risk of delivering changes, and ultimately value, to
customers by allowing for more incremental changes to applications in
production.

Continuous integration (CI) is the practice, in software engineering, of
merging all developer working copies to a shared mainline several times
a day.

In the same vein, the practice of continuous delivery further extends CI
by making sure the software checked in on the mainline is always in a
state that can be deployed to users and makes the actual deployment
process very rapid.

So, in this rapid and fast world of CI-CD, focusing on highly scalable &
highly portable software landscape, which offers high usage oriented web
apps, the security landscape has really reached to cutting edge point.

This talk, will focus on how to posturize security with this fast pace
world, covering most of all security verticals.

Speaker: Aniket Kulkarni, carries decade+ of software security
experience flowing from QA, Development & Architecture. Currently he
works as Software Security Architect (Bigdata\\Cloud\\Mobile\\Web), in
Autodesk Singapore R\&D, one of world class design software developing
companies across the globe.

For more information about Aniket, kindly get connected with him on
linkedin: <https://sg.linkedin.com/pub/aniket-kulkarni/10/653/202> , and
he will be happy to interact with you for various security related
discussions.

#### Sep 2015 Meetup: OWASP Zed Attack Proxy Advanced Features - A Demo

Date: 29 Sep 2015 7pm

Venue: Akamai Singapore office, 1 Raffles Place, \#16-61, One Raffles
Place Tower 2, Singapore 048616

OWASP Zed Attack Proxy (ZAP) is an integrated penetration testing tool
for finding vulnerabilities in web applications. Over the past few
years, it has significantly grown its popularity, features and
contributions from WW engineers, as it comes straight out of the OWASP
community, absolutely free of cost and most of all, easy to use\! This
demo-based training session covers the basics and advanced features of
ZAP, which will enable application developers to understand and automate
the tool usage, application testers to perform security tests and
security engineers to provide consultation on best-practices of using
the tool.

Speaker: Viswanath S Chirravuri has over 10 years of experience in IT
Security space. Currently he is a Software Security Architect for Asia
region at a leading digital security company, GEMALTO. He actively holds
industry certifications like CISSP, CEH, GWAPT, Security+, PMP and SCJP.
Viswanath is accredited by CA Technologies on Identity and Access
management suite of products. Over the past 3 years, he has been giving
training's on various SAST and DAST tools to application security
engineers in financial services and telecommunications industries.

#### Jan 2015 Meetup: Introducing Application Security in Your Organization - Think Like a Developer

Date: 22 Jan 2015 7pm

Venue: SR10 (Seminar room 10), COM1 Building \#02-10, 13 Computing
Drive, NUS, Singapore 117417

In this session, the speaker, Sandeep Nain, from HP Australia and a
former co-lead from OWASP Melbourne Chapter, will cover the following
topics:

1\. How to build secure development lifecycle for development teams
using modern software development methodologies

2\. Challenges of enforcing secure development lifecycle at an
enterprise scale

3\. Reasons why most application security programmes fail and how we can
collaborate with development teams for easier enterprise adoption

Come join us for our 1st 2015 meetup which comes with free pizzas and
soft drinks, courtesy of HP Fortify.

PS: Please take note of our new meeting place in NUS.

### 2014

#### Oct 2014 Meetup: Mobile Security

Date: 21 October 2014 7pm

Venue: Cavenagh Room, UOB Conference Suite, Basement 1 Tower 2, One
Raffles Place, Singapore 048616

In this session, our fellow OWASP member, Cecil Su, will share the
current mobile security threat landscape. Coupled with this, he will
also share some of the challenges in the mobile application assessment
process, as well as address some of the existing methodologies and
frameworks for secure coding and security testing of mobile
applications.

Cecil is 24-by-7 OWASP Evangelist. However, Mondays to Fridays, he works
with the Professional Security Services team in a pure-play local
InfoComm Security firm. Extra-curricular activities include the Honeynet
Project, OWASP and AISP.

PS: Please take note of our new meeting place and the shortened meetup
duration due to venue constraints.

#### Information Security Seminar (ISS) 2014

Date: 26-27 August 2014

Venue: Marina Bay Sands Convention Centre

The Information Security Seminar is an annual event held since 2008 to
provide thought leadership on infocomm security as well as to promote
greater understanding of the key infocomm security issues and challenges
faced by public and private sector organisations. This event is jointly
organised by the Infocomm Development Authority (IDA), the Association
of Information Security Professionals (AiSP) and the Cyber Security
Awareness Alliance (CSAA) to amalgamate expertise, resources and
communication channels in reaching out to both the public and private
sector organisations.

The theme for the 2014 Seminar is “Security of Our Cyber Environment –
Challenges of the Mobile Workspace”, which centres on sensitising the
Public and Private sectors on the need to heighten vigilance in securing
organisations’ digital information, and to build capabilities to prepare
against ever evolving infocomm security threats. With the advent and
adoption of new technology trends such as mobility, cloud computing and
big data management, organisations need to be guarded against their
inherent security risks, such as data loss, that may result due to
improper infocomm security management. The seminar will discuss on the
areas of security considerations and means to secure these technologies
from exploits.

The seminar, comprising a main plenary as well as breakout tracks, is
expected to draw about 500 infocomm security decision makers and
practitioners from the Public and Private sectors, as well as students
from institutes of higher learning. On the second day of the seminar,
workshops which aim to provide an in-depth and hands-on approach to
managing infocomm security challenges will be held for security
professionals and students from institutes of higher learning.

For paid OWASP members, you are entitled to two complimentary seminar
passes on a first-come-first-serve basis. Thereafter, you are entitled
to a 10% discount off the list prices.

Please email me to register.

Do sign up soon and see you at ISS 2014\!

#### Jul 2014 Meetup 2: "A technical introduction to FIDO - Is the age of of simple consumer-oriented strong-authentication finally arriving?" and "Source code review with focus on technical resolution challenges"

Date: 21 July 2014

Venue: Prudential Assurance Company Singapore (Pte) Ltd (at Prudential
Towers) 30 Cecil Street \#13-01 Prudential Tower (S) 049712

Come and hear from 2 great speakers in this meetup, which comes with
free pizzas and soft drinks, courtesy of Checkmarx.

Our first speaker is a familiar to us - Arshad Noor. He will be
presenting on "A technical introduction to FIDO - Is the age of of
simple consumer-oriented strong-authentication finally arriving?"

The 2nd speaker is Kobi Tzruya, Director of Pre/Post Sales in Checkmarx.
He will be sharing on 2 case studies on source code review with focus on
technical resolution challenges.

Many thanks to Dick and Prudential for providing the venue for our
chapter evening again\!

Please RSVP to our meetup.com site (http://www.meetup.com/SGSecurityMG/)
latest by 20 July 2014 730pm.

See ya\!

#### Jul 2014 Meetup: OWASP Top 10 Proactive Controls

Date: 4 July 2014

Venue: Prudential Assurance Company Singapore (Pte) Ltd (at Prudential
Towers) 30 Cecil Street \#13-01 Prudential Tower (S) 049712

You have heard of the OWASP Top 10 Web Application Risks. Now, hear
about OWASP Top 10 Proactive Controls to learn about active steps you
can take to avoid the common web application risks.

The speaker is Jim Manico, a member of OWASP Global Board. He is the
lead behind the excellent OWASP Cheat Sheets on top of many other OWASP
projects that he is leading. He is a frequent speaker on secure software
practices and is a member of the JavaOne "rockstar hall of fame". He has
a 18+ year history building software as a developer and architect.

Many thanks to Dick and Prudential for providing the venue for our
chapter evenings\! In such short notice too\!

Please RSVP to our meetup.com site (http://www.meetup.com/SGSecurityMG/)
latest by 4 July 2014 1230pm.

See ya\!

#### Jun 2014 Meetup: Covert Redirect Vulnerability

Date: 18 June 2014

Venue: Prudential Assurance Company Singapore (Pte) Ltd (at Prudential
Towers) 30 Cecil Street \#13-01 Prudential Tower (S) 049712

In this presentation, the speaker, Wang Jing, will share on the
following:

Unvalidated Redirects and Forwards, also known as Open Redirect, is on
the OWASP top 10 list in 2010 and 2013. One repercussion of the
vulnerability is that it can be used for phishing attacks. According to
Kaspersky, in 2012-2013, 37.3 million users around the world were
subjected to phishing attacks — up 87% from 2011-2012. This presentation
introduces a new kind of attack, Covert Redirect. The name is derived
from and to contrast with Open Redirect. Covert Redirect could affect
those who use OAuth 2.0 and OpenID to “login” websites such as Facebook,
Google, Yahoo, LinkedIn, Microsoft, Paypal and many others. We will then
simulate a Covert Redirect attack and provide some precautionary steps
that companies can take to ensure security.

Many thanks to Dick and Prudential for providing the venue for our
chapter evenings\!

Please RSVP to our meetup.com site (http://www.meetup.com/SGSecurityMG/)
latest by 17 June 2014.

See ya\!

#### Apr 2014 Meetup: OWASP Cornucopia

Date: 23 April 2014

Venue: Prudential Assurance Company Singapore (Pte) Ltd (at Prudential
Towers) 30 Cecil Street \#13-01 Prudential Tower (S) 049712

In this presentation, the speaker, Tobias Gondrom, will share on the
following:

Bringing fun into threat modelling. Based on Microsoft's Escalation of
Privilege (EoP) threat modelling card game, OWASP has designed this card
game into a new version more suitable for common web applications, and
aligned with OWASP advice and guides. "OWASP Cornucopia - Ecommerce Web
Application Edition" will be presented and used to demonstrate how it
can help software architects and developers identify security
requirements from the OWASP Secure Coding Practices - Quick Reference
Guide and other sources. We will also have a few card decks to show and
share.

Many thanks to Dick and Prudential for providing the venue for our
chapter evenings\!

Speaker Profile: Tobias Gondrom, OWASP Global Board Member Tobias
Gondrom has over 15 years of experience leading global teams in
information security, software development, application security,
cryptography, electronic signatures and global standardization
organizations working for independent software vendors and large global
corporations in the financial, technology and government sector. And he
holds the most senior business degree from London Business School, the
Sloan Masters in Leadership and Strategy.

Please RSVP to our meetup.com site (http://www.meetup.com/SGSecurityMG/)
latest by 22 April 2014.

See ya\!

#### Mar 2014 Meetup: HTML5 Security

Date: 12 March 2014

Venue: Prudential Assurance Company Singapore (Pte) Ltd (at Prudential
Towers) 30 Cecil Street \#13-01 Prudential Tower (S) 049712

In this presentation, the speaker, Aatif Khan, will share on the
following:

HTML5 has several new components like XHR-Level2, DOM, Storage, App
Cache, WebSQL etc. All these components are making underlying backbone
for HTML5applications and by nature they look very silent. It allows
crafting stealth attack vectors and adding risk to end client. Here is a
list of top 10 attack vectors. Structured layers as mentioned in the
above section provide more clarity on a possible enhanced attack
surface. This exposes browser components of an application to a set of
possible threat which can be exploited. Listed below are possible top 10
threats where new HTML5 features along with emerging software developing
patterns, have significant impact.

Many thanks to Dick and Prudential for providing the venue for our
chapter evenings\!

Speaker Profile: Aatif Khan Aatif Khan, Application Security Evangelist,
has delivered highly technical security training for conferences,
universities, and corporate clients like Bank of America,
Verizon,Amazon, Google, Yahoo, etc. to excellent reviews. He is also one
of the main founding member of HDCRB (Hack Defense Certification Review
Board). Aatif consults for application security, and is having
specialization in security assessments/penetration testing, infosec
training's, and reverse engineering/malware analysis.

Apart from his stupendous exposure in application security consulting
from seven years, he has also worked with Defense Personnel, Cyber Crime
Police Officials and has also delivered over more than 2000 hours of
Information Security training to IT Security Professional's & Government
Agencies. He has authored Books entitled "Ethical Hacking", "Advance
Penetration Testing", "Backtrack Starter Manual" published by Packt
Publications, UK.

He is popularly known for designing the most advance course on "Advance
Penetration Testing" with his Lab Book & Lab Exam, and has received
stupendous feedback from top notch security experts. You can find more
about him here - facebook.com/thenapsterkhan

Please RSVP to our meetup.com site (http://www.meetup.com/SGSecurityMG/)
latest by 11 March 2014.

See ya\!

### 2013

#### Jul 2013 Meetup: Managing Web & Application Security with OWASP – bringing it all together

Date: 18 July 2013

Venue: Prudential Assurance Company Singapore (Pte) Ltd (at Prudential
Towers) 30 Cecil Street \#13-01 Prudential Tower (S) 049712

In this presentation, the speaker, Tobias Gundrum, will share on the
following:

Setting up, managing and improving your global information security
organisation using mature OWASP projects and tools. Achieving
cost-effective application security and bringing it all together on the
management level. A journey through different organisational stages and
how OWASP tools help organisations moving forward improving their web
and application security. This talk will discuss a number of quick wins
and how to effectively manage global security initiatives and use OWASP
tools inside your organisation.

Many thanks to Prudential for providing the venue for our chapter
evenings\!

Please RSVP to our meetup.com site (http://www.meetup.com/SGSecurityMG/)
latest by 17 July 2013.

See ya\!

#### May 203 Meetup: Wordpress (In)Security: How hackers bypassed manual defacement monitoring

Date: 30 May 2013

Venue: Prudential Assurance Company Singapore (Pte) Ltd (not Prudential
Towers\!) 156 Cecil Street \#10-00, Far Eastern Bank Building, Singapore
069544

In this presentation, the speaker, Onn Chee, will share on the
following:

Onn Chee will walk through a case of web defacement of Wordpress by
hackers which outwitted the manual defacement services offered by
managed security services providers.

He will also share some tips on how to better secure Wordpress
deployments.

If you are running Wordpress, come and share your experiences and
security tips too.

Many thanks to Prudential for providing the venue for our chapter
evenings\!

Please RSVP to our meetup.com site (http://www.meetup.com/SGSecurityMG/)
latest by 29 May 2013.

See ya\!

#### Feb 2013 Meetup: Bypassing Local Microsoft Security Policies

Date: 28 Feb 2013

Venue: Prudential Assurance Company Singapore (Pte) Ltd (not Prudential
Towers\!) 156 Cecil Street \#10-00, Far Eastern Bank Building, Singapore
069544

Welcome to the 1st meetup of 2013\!

In this presentation, the speaker, Paul Craig, will share on the
following:

Local Microsoft security policies are one of the few areas of security
that are rarely researched or focused on by the security community.
These policies are designed to prevent local users from accessing
functionality which has been "Disabled By Your Administrator". From
Local Group Policy, Software Restriction Policies, App Locker to
Internet Explorer, each Microsoft technology has its own way of
restricting what you can and cannot do. For local exploitation attempt
these technologies can be troublesome, frustrating and restrict the true
potential of your attack. This talk will cover a broad view of the
current attacks against Microsoft local policies and the underlying
issues affecting this form of security.

Speaker Profile

Paul is the Principal Security Consultant at Security-Assessment.com
Singapore. Labeled "A malicious hacker" by the media in his native New
Zealand, Paul is now based in sunny Singapore where he leads the SE
Asian Penetration Testing Team. Paul has been an avid security
researcher and all-round advocate for security from a young age with a
passion for exploitation and finding creative methods of getting shell.

Many thanks to Prudential for providing the venue for our chapter
evenings\!

Please RSVP to our meetup.com site (http://www.meetup.com/SGSecurityMG/)
latest by 28 Feb 2013.

See ya\!

### 2012

#### Nov 2012 Meetup 2: AISP-OWASP: Hacking Techniques

Date: 14 Nov 2012

Venue: Prudential Assurance Company Singapore (Pte) Ltd (not Prudential
Towers\!) 156 Cecil Street \#10-00, Far Eastern Bank Building, Singapore
069544

Welcome to the 7th session of the joint AISP-OWASP series of chapter
evenings\!

In this presentation, the speaker, Ryan Baxendale will share on these
topics:

\- Tips and tricks for hacking Microsoft SharePoint sites.

\- Taking advantage of administrative interfaces to get shell.

\- Breaking end to end encryption implemented in JavaScript.

\- Weak two factor authentication and how to get around it.

\- Abusing poorly designed password reset functions to get admin access.

\- Bypassing a web application firewall.

Many thanks to Prudential for providing the venue for our chapter
evenings\!

There are some more interesting topics and speakers being lined up for
this series and more information will be given once the details are
confirmed.

Do join us for these joint AISP-OWASP chapter evenings and interact with
your peers\!

Please RSVP to our meetup.com site (http://www.meetup.com/SGSecurityMG/)
latest by 12 Nov 2012.

See ya\!

#### Nov 2012 Meetup: AISP-OWASP: New web attacks & short intro on IT Impact of SG data privacy law

Date: 7 Nov 2012

Venue: Prudential Assurance Company Singapore (Pte) Ltd (not Prudential
Towers\!) 156 Cecil Street \#10-00, Far Eastern Bank Building, Singapore
069544

Welcome to the 6th session of the joint AISP-OWASP series of chapter
evenings\!

In this presentation, the speaker, Onn Chee will share some latest
discoveries of web attacks and walk through a short 30-min introduction
to the IT impact of the new Singapore Personal Data Protection Act.

Many thanks to Prudential for providing the venue for our chapter
evenings\!

There are some more interesting topics and speakers being lined up for
this series and more information will be given once the details are
confirmed.

Do join us for these joint AISP-OWASP chapter evenings and interact with
your peers\!

Please RSVP to our meetup.com site (http://www.meetup.com/SGSecurityMG/)
latest by 5 Nov 2012.

See ya\!

#### Oct 2012 Meetup 3: AISP-OWASP: WAFs - An attacker's perspective

Date: 29 Oct 2012

Venue: Prudential Assurance Company Singapore (Pte) Ltd (not Prudential
Towers\!) 156 Cecil Street \#10-00, Far Eastern Bank Building, Singapore
069544

Welcome to the 5th session of the joint AISP-OWASP series of chapter
evenings\!

In this presentation, the speaker, Bernhard will look at the
effectiveness of WAFs from the perspective of a long-time security
tester.

Many thanks to Prudential for providing the venue for our chapter
evenings\!

There are some more interesting topics and speakers being lined up for
this series and more information will be given once the details are
confirmed.

Do join us for these joint AISP-OWASP chapter evenings and interact with
your peers\!

Please RSVP to our meetup.com site (http://www.meetup.com/SGSecurityMG/)
latest by 26 Oct 2012.

See ya\!

#### Oct 2012 Meetup 2: AISP-OWASP: Dynamic Web Defense

Date: 22 Oct 2012

Venue: Prudential Assurance Company Singapore (Pte) Ltd (not Prudential
Towers\!) 156 Cecil Street \#10-00, Far Eastern Bank Building, Singapore
069544

Welcome to the 4th session of the joint AISP-OWASP series of chapter
evenings\!

In this presentation, the speaker, Bernard, will share on the latest
developments in dynamic web defense techniques used by WAFs.

Many thanks to Prudential for providing the venue for our chapter
evenings\!

There are some more interesting topics and speakers being lined up for
this series and more information will be given once the details are
confirmed.

Do join us for these joint AISP-OWASP chapter evenings and interact with
your peers\!

Please RSVP to our meetup.com site (http://www.meetup.com/SGSecurityMG/)
latest by 20 Oct 2012.

See ya\!

#### Oct 2012 Meetup: AISP-OWASP Joint Series: Learn how Taiwanese organisations defend themselves against constant Chinese cyber attacks

Date: 3 Oct 2012

Venue: Prudential Assurance Company Singapore (Pte) Ltd (not Prudential
Towers\!) 156 Cecil Street \#10-00, Far Eastern Bank Building, Singapore
069544

Welcome to the 3rd session of the joint AISP-OWASP series of chapter
evenings\!

It has long been rumored that the Chinese government has an army of
trained hackers to carry out national level attacks. Taiwan, despite
being their closest neighbor in terms of language and culture, become a
convenient target and constant victim since they have opposing political
stance.

As Taiwan has been moving into e-government since 2005, this phenomenon
forced the Taiwanese government to strengthen their IT security,
especially on application security.

In this presentation, the speaker, Kae Bin, will share some common
attacks that was observed and how does Taiwan react to those constant
bombardment from their friendly neighbor.

Many thanks to Prudential for providing the venue for our chapter
evenings\!

There are some more interesting topics and speakers being lined up for
this series and more information will be given once the details are
confirmed.

Do join us for these joint AISP-OWASP chapter evenings and interact with
your peers\!

Please RSVP to our meetup.com site (http://www.meetup.com/SGSecurityMG/)
latest by 1 Oct 2012.

See ya\!

#### Sep 2012 Meetup 2: AISP-OWASP Joint Series: Security Testing with OWASP ZAP

Date: 18 Sep 2012

Venue: Prudential Assurance Company Singapore (Pte) Ltd 156 Cecil Street
\#10-00, Far Eastern Bank Building, Singapore 069544

Welcome to the 2nd session of the joint AISP-OWASP series of chapter
evenings\!

AISP and OWASP Singapore have lined up a series of speakers to share on
interesting security topics related to web security.

Many thanks to Prudential for providing the venue for our chapter
evenings\!

There are some more interesting topics and speakers being lined up for
this series and more information will be given once the details are
confirmed.

Do join us for these joint AISP-OWASP chapter evenings and interact with
your peers\!

Please RSVP to secretariat@aisp.sg latest by 16 Sep 2012.

See ya\!

#### Sep 2012 Meetup: AISP-OWASP Joint Series: Use of OWASP ESAPI to Defend Against OWASP Top 10 Risks

Date: 12 Sep 2012

Venue: Prudential Assurance Company Singapore (Pte) Ltd 156 Cecil Street
\#10-00, Far Eastern Bank Building, Singapore 069544

Welcome to the 1st session of the joint AISP-OWASP series of chapter
evenings\!

AISP and OWASP Singapore have lined up a series of speakers to share on
interesting security topics related to web security.

Many thanks to Prudential for providing the venue for our chapter
evenings\!

There are some more interesting topics and speakers being lined up for
this series and more information will be given once the details are
confirmed.

Do join us for these joint AISP-OWASP chapter evenings and interact with
your peers\!

Please RSVP to secretariat@aisp.sg latest by 10 Sep 2012.

See ya\!

#### HITBSecConf2012 - Malaysia: \#TenYearsInTheBox

![<File:Hitb2012kul-banner-300-250.jpg>](Hitb2012kul-banner-300-250.jpg
"File:Hitb2012kul-banner-300-250.jpg")

Date: 8th - 11th October

Venue: InterContinental, Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia

Website: [HITBSecConf2012 Malaysia
Portal](http://conference.hitb.org/hitbsecconf2012kul/)

To commemorate **TEN YEARS** of playing host to the brilliant minds that
have helped shaped the security landscape to where it is today,
HITBSecConf2012 – Malaysia (\#HITB2012KUL) will be welcoming back on
stage over 42 of our most popular speakers from the last 10 years\!

Here's your chance to meet the legends of the computer security industry
including the likes of John ‘Captain Crunch’ Draper, The Founders of The
Pirate Bay, Mikko Hypponen, DNS guru and president of ISC, Paul
Vixie,OpenBSD creator Theo de Raadt and even members of the LEGENDARY
iPhone Dev Team and jailbreak DreamTeam will be on hand for a very very
special iOS / OS X panel discussion\! Featuring @MuscleNerd @pod2g
@planetbeing and joined by non other than Charlie @0xcharlie Miller and
Stefan @i0n1c Esser\!

The event takes place on the 8th till 11th of October and as always we
kick off the first two days with 8 tracks of hands on technical training
sessions (8th and 9th October) followed by the 2-day triple track
conference with NO KEYNOTES, NO LAB SESSIONS and NO SIGINT slots.

We’re also ramping up this year’s show by expanding on HITB favorites –
including an expanded CommSec village with an updated round-the-clock 36
hour nonstop Capture The Flag competition and also an expanded 36 hour
HackWEEKDAY hackathon to go with it. Registration for HackWEEKDAY is
COMPLETELY FREE and we strongly encourage professional developers and
students to sign up.

Do note that there will only be a maximum of 1010 seats for the
conference on the 10th and 11th of October and registration is already
open. OWASP members are entitled to the conference seats at SGD580
(normal price SGD640) - Discount code is limited to the first 15 sign
ups on a first-come, first-serve basis.

Register Online: [HITBSecConf2012 Malaysia
Registration](http://conference.hitb.org/hitbsecconf2012kul/register/)

Please contact Onn Chee for the discount code. Do note only paid
registered OWASP members are eligible for the discounts.

#### Apr 2012 Meetup: Rethinking web-application architecture for the Cloud

Date: 23 April 2012

Unless your organization is unique, not all your data is sensitive. This
raises the question: should scarce security resources be used to protect
100% of your data? The logical approach should be to build your IT
infrastructure in a manner that optimizes your investments: protecting
what matters while managing non-sensitive data with minimal controls.

This talk presents an architecture for building the next generation of
web-applications. This architecture allows you to leverage emerging
technologies such as cloud-computing, cloud-storage and enterprise
key-management Infrastructure (EKMI) to derive benefits such as lower
costs, faster time-to-market and immense scalability with smaller
investments – while proving compliance to PCI-DSS, HIPAA/HITECH and
similar data-security regulations. We call this "Regulatory Compliant
Cloud Computing (RC3)". Papers describing RC3 can be found on the
following websites:

IBM: <http://ibm.co/rc3dw>

ISSA Journal: <http://bit.ly/rc3issa>

InfoQ: <http://bit.ly/rc3infoq>

StrongAuth: <http://www.strongauth.com/pdf/RC3-WebAppArch-1.2-2.pdf>

**Speaker's Bio**

Arshad is the CTO of StrongAuth, Inc., a Silicon Valley-based company
focused on encryption and key-management for the last 11 years. He is
the architect and lead developer of many open-source cryptographic
software including CSRTool, StrongKey, KeyAppliance and the
CryptoEngine. He has written many papers and spoken at many conferences
- most recently at OWASP AppSec 2012 - on the subject of encryption and
key-management.

**Meetup details**

Monday, April 23, 2012 7:00 PM

Prudential Assurance Company Singapore (Pte) Ltd

156 Cecil Street \#10-00, Far Eastern Bank Building

Singapore 069544

**Please RSVP at <http://security.meetup.com/77>**

See ya\!

### 2011

**OWASP Singapore is a Supporting Organisation for Asia Cloud Conference
2011 scheduled to be held the Grand Hyatt Hotel Singapore on 2 Nov
2011**

The [Asia Cloud 2011 Conference](http://cloud.questexevents.net/) will
provide insights and key learning to understand how your organization
can take advantage of cloud technologies. Leading industry practitioners
will address the emerging cloud technology trends, examine best
practices in successfully integrating cloud technologies into the
enterprise’s infrastructure and meets various challenges in managing
cloud’s performance in the enterprise.

**Members Benefits\!\!**

The above event organiser has given two complimentary delegate passes
for two registered OWASP SG members (first-come-first-serve basis).
Priority will be given to those registered members who did not enjoy
free complimentary passes before. Contact me @ ocwong@owasp.org if you
want one of the complimentary delegate passes.

Note: Conference seats at this event are complimentary to senior-level
end users of IT solutions. The fee for other professionals to attend
this event is US$995. The Organizer reserves the final right to accept
or reject any registrations.

![<File:AsiaCloudForum_100x100.png>](AsiaCloudForum_100x100.png
"File:AsiaCloudForum_100x100.png")

**OWASP Singapore is a Supporting Organisation for IDA's Information
Security Seminar 2011 from 13-14 April 2011**

Members Benefits\!\!

The above event organiser has given two complimentary delegate passes
for two registered OWASP SG members (first-come-first-serve basis).
Contact me @ ocwong@owasp.org if you want the one of the complimentary
delegate passes.

For other members, you too can enjoy discounted affiliate rates when you
register.

[Click here to know more about Information Security
Seminar 2011](http://www.aisp.org.sg/iss2011/)

![<File:bg.jpg>](bg.jpg "File:bg.jpg")

**OWASP Singapore is a Supporting Organisation for Info Security
Conference 2011 in Singapore on 5 May 2011**

Members Benefits\!\!

The above event organiser has given two complimentary delegate passes
for two registered OWASP SG members (first-come-first-serve basis).
Contact me @ ocwong@owasp.org if you want the one of the complimentary
delegate passes.

[Click here to know more about Info Security Conference
Singapore](http://infosecurity.questexevents.net/)

![<File:infosec2011_600x100.gif>](infosec2011_600x100.gif
"File:infosec2011_600x100.gif")

## News

**`OWASP``   ``Moves``   ``to``   ``MediaWiki``   ``Portal``   ``-``
 ``11:31,``   ``20``   ``May``   ``2006``   ``(EDT)`**

OWASP is pleased to announce the arrival of OWASP 2.0\!

OWASP 2.0 utilizes the MediaWiki portal to manage and provide the latest
OWASP related information. Enjoy\!

The chapter leader is [Onn Chee](mailto:ocwong@owasp.org).

Contact Information for Onn Chee is as follow:

Mobile: (65) 9838 7930

Skype VOIP: ocwong

Email: ocwong@owasp.org

**`OWASP``   ``Singapore``   ``have``   ``combined``   ``its``
 ``activities``   ``with``   ``Singapore``   ``Security``   ``Meetup``
 ``Group``   ``(SSMG)``   ``since``   ``Dec``   ``2007`**

We are holding our regular joint OWASP-SSMG meetings on the 2nd Thursday
of each month.

Do check out <http://www.meetup.com/SGSecurityMG/> for the calendar of
events.

For our past meetings, please check out
<http://www.meetup.com/SGSecurityMG/calendar/past_list/>

For ease of management, updates on activities will be made on the
<http://www.meetup.com/SGSecurityMG/>, though updates will still be sent
to OWASP Singapore mailing list.

**`OWASP``   ``Singapore``   ``Get``   ``Together``   ``on``
 ``19:30,``   ``9``   ``Oct``   ``2007``   ``(SGT)`**

We will meet at Geek Terminal (http://www.geekterminal.com)

Address: 55 Market Street 01-01 Singapore 048941

Telephone No: +65 65570098

Nearest Carpark: Golden Shoe Carpark Nearest MRT: Raffles Place MRT

**`OWASP``   ``Singapore``   ``Nov``   ``Chapter``   ``Meeting``
 ``on``   ``19:30,``   ``7``   ``Nov``   ``2007``   ``(SGT)`**

Michael Boman will be presenting "Overcoming USB (In)Security"

Venue : GeekTerminal

**`OWASP``   ``Singapore``   ``Dec``   ``Chapter``   ``Meeting``
 ``on``   ``19:30,``   ``13``   ``Dec``   ``2007``   ``(SGT)`**

Venue : GeekTerminal

**`OWASP``   ``Singapore``   ``Jan``   ``Chapter``   ``Meeting``
 ``on``   ``19:30,``   ``10``   ``Jan``   ``2008``   ``(SGT)`**

Venue : SODS, 51 Tras Street

**`OWASP``   ``Singapore``   ``Feb``   ``Chapter``   ``Meeting``
 ``on``   ``19:30,``   ``14``   ``Feb``   ``2008``   ``(SGT)`**

Venue : SODS, 51 Tras Street (We loved each other so much that we met on
Valentine's Day\!)

**`OWASP``   ``Singapore``   ``Feb``   ``Chapter``   ``Meeting``
 ``on``   ``19:30,``   ``13``   ``Mar``   ``2008``   ``(SGT)`**

Venue : SODS, 51 Tras Street

**`OWASP``   ``Singapore``   ``Apr``   ``Chapter``   ``Meeting``
 ``on``   ``19:30,``   ``10``   ``Apr``   ``2008``   ``(SGT)`**

Venue : JCU, 2 Bukit Merah Central, \#03-01, SPRING Singapore Building,
S(159835) (http://www.jcu.edu.sg/ContactUs_Location.htm)

Topic : Intro to WebGoat by Onn Chee and a Hacking demo by Johnny.

**`OWASP``   ``Singapore``   ``May``   ``Chapter``   ``Meeting``
 ``on``   ``19:30,``   ``29``   ``May``   ``2008``   ``(SGT)`**

Venue : JCU, 2 Bukit Merah Central, \#03-01, SPRING Singapore Building,
S(159835) (http://www.jcu.edu.sg/ContactUs_Location.htm)

Topic : Intro to WebScarab by Rogan and Burp proxy suite by Rick.

[Category:Singapore](Category:Singapore "wikilink")