![468x60-banner-2010.gif](468x60-banner-2010.gif
"468x60-banner-2010.gif")

[Registration](https://guest.cvent.com/EVENTS/Register/IdentityConfirmation.aspx?e=d52c6f5f-d568-4e16-b8e0-b5e2bf87ab3a)
|
[Hotel](https://resweb.passkey.com/Resweb.do?mode=welcome_gi_new&groupID=2766908)
| [Walter E. Washington Convention
Center](http://www.dcconvention.com/)
\== The presentation ==

![Dan_Cornell_web.jpg](Dan_Cornell_web.jpg
"Dan_Cornell_web.jpg")Enterprises are targeting both internal users and
customers with smartphone applications for platforms such as Apple
iPhone and Google Android. Many of these applications are constructed
without fully considering the associated security implications of their
deployment. Breaches can impact both users as well as the enterprise
distributing the application as attackers take advantage of expanded
access to sensitive data and network services. Threat Modeling is an
established practice used to identify potential security issues before
starting development and holds promise for organizations developing
leading-edge smartphone applications. This talk discusses emerging
threats associated with deploying smartphone applications and provides
an overview of the Threat Modeling process. The presentation then walks
through specific examples of how Threat Modeling can be most effectively
used in the development of smartphone applications, helping proactively
address potential design-level security issues that can be expensive and
challenging to fix.

## Dan Cornell

Dan Cornell has over twelve years of experience architecting and
developing web-based software systems. He leads Denim Groupâ€™s security
research team in investigating the application of secure coding and
development techniques to improve web-based software development
methodologies.

Dan was the founding coordinator and chairman for the Java Users Group
of San Antonio (JUGSA) and currently serves as the OWASP San Antonio
chapter leader, member of the OWASP Global Membership Committee and
co-lead of the OWASP Open Review Project. Dan has spoken at such
international conferences as ROOTs in Norway and OWASP EU Summit in
Portugal.

[Category:AppSec_DC_2010_Presentations](Category:AppSec_DC_2010_Presentations "wikilink")
[Category:OWASP_Conference_Presentations](Category:OWASP_Conference_Presentations "wikilink")