## The Presentation: Bad Cocktail: Spear Phishing + Application Hacks

Site takedown services, anti-phishing filters, and millions of dollars
worth of protective technologies…..and the spear phishers are still
successful\! This presentation will discuss why this is the case. Today,
phishing is a key component in a “hackers” repertoire. Phishers are
combining social engineering with application security flaws in well
known websites to make automated detection of targeted phishing attacks
almost impossible. The result - hijacked online brokerage accounts,
stolen identities and e-bank robberies. During this talk, I will present
the techniques used by attackers to execute such spear phishing attacks,
and real-world cases that I have responded to that will provide
perspective on the impact. I will then discuss countermeasures that have
been proven to be effective and are recommended by reputed bodies like
SANS and Carnegie Mellon University.

## The Speaker: Rohyt Belani

Rohyt Belani is CEO and co-founder of the Intrepidus Group and Adjunct
Professor at Carnegie Mellon University. Prior to starting the
Intrepidus Group, Mr. Belani has held the positions of Managing Director
at Mandiant, Principal Consultant at Foundstone and Researcher at the
US-CERT.

He is a contributing author for Osborne’s Hack Notes – Network Security,
as well as Addison Wesley’s Extrusion Detection: Security Monitoring for
Internal Intrusions.

Mr. Belani is a regular speaker at various industry conferences
including Black Hat, OWASP, ASIS, SecTOR, Hack in the Box, Infosec
World, DallasCon, CPM, ISSA meetings, and several forums catering to the
FBI, US Secret Service, and US Military.

He has written technical articles and columns for online publications
like Securityfocus and SC magazine, and has been interviewed by BBC
Radio, Forbes magazine, TechNewsWorld, InformationWeek, Information
Today, IndustryWeek, E-Commerce Times, SmartMoney, and Hacker Japan.

Mr. Belani holds a Bachelor of Engineering in Computer Engineering from
Bombay University and a Master of Science in Information Networking from
Carnegie Mellon University. He currently leads the OWASP Java Project a
world-wide consortium of Java security experts.

[back to Presentation
Agenda](Front_Range_OWASP_Conference_2009#Agenda_and_Presentations:_5_March_2009 "wikilink")