## The Presentation: "A Legal Minimum Standard of Due Care: The CAG and the Top 25 Most Dangerous Programming Errors"

This fast-paced briefing introduces you to the three faces of cyber
crime and then turns quickly to the federal government's extraordinary
response to the expanding threat: the CAG -- a minimum standard of due
care for securing systems and applications. The briefing goes on to
focus on the application security element of the CAG and particularly
the Top 25 Most Dangerous Programming Errors and how custom software
development procurement is being reshaped by them.

## The Speaker: Alan Paller

Alan is the director of research for the SANS Institute, responsible for
projects including the Internet Storm Center (the Internetâ€™s early
warning system with 500,000 sensors around the world) and SANS other
consensus research projects such as the summary of the most critical new
vulnerabilities discovered each week. He also edits NewsBites, the
summary of the most important news stories in security that goes to
185,000 people twice each week. He says his most satisfying
responsibility is finding people who have solved important security
problems and helping others learn about those people and their
discoveries. In 2001 the President named Alan as one of the original
members of the National Infrastructure Assurance Council, and in 2005
the Federal CIO Council chose him as its Azimuth Award winner
recognizing his singular vision and outstanding service to federal
information technology. Alan earned degrees in computer science and
engineering from Cornell and MIT.

[back to Presentation
Agenda](Front_Range_OWASP_Conference_2009#Agenda_and_Presentations:_5_March_2009 "wikilink")