## The Presentation: Security Policy Management: Best Practices for Web Services and Application Security

A policy driven approach is fundamental to the secure deployment of web
services and applications in today's environment. In a service oriented
architecture, the goals established and driven by the business need to
be consistent with corporate security policies and standards followed by
IT operations. To achieve those goals, a unified security policy
management approach should be considered to enable secure access to web
services and applications. This session will discuss a standards-based
(XACML, WS-SecurityPolicy) security policy management approach and the
key set of requirements to enable web-services and application security.
It will cover the high-level architectural requirements to enable
organizations to safely externalize security from the web services and
applications. The session will also discuss a case study of how a
standards based, unified policy management and enforcement can address
authentication, identity propagation, coarse-and fine-grained
authorization security requirements and enable clients to demonstrate
compliance in a loosely coupled, heterogeneous IT environment.

## The Speaker: Ray Neucom

Ray Neucom is a Senior Security Architect with IBM. He has been actively
involved in application security deployments for fortune 500 companies
over the last 10 years. He has also been instrumental in helping IBM
develop software solutions for application and web services security.
Ray is currently providing technical enablement to IBM, worldwide, on
application security.

[back to Presentation
Agenda](Front_Range_OWASP_Conference_2009#Agenda_and_Presentations:_5_March_2009 "wikilink")