## The Presentation: Doing more with less? : Automate or Die

The harsh economic climate has hit us all in some way. Budgets are
trimmed and spending is down. We are continuously asked to do more with
less, but how? Certainly the attackers aren’t spending less\! Our web
applications continue to grow in size and complexity. So what can an
InfoSec team do to become more efficient and still effectively protect
our applications?

At Orbitz, our team took a hard look at where we were spending a lot of
our time – the grunt work – and how we could spend less of it. After
building out a fairly comprehensive vulnerability management program and
using a lot of best in breed tools, we found ourselves with an
overabundance of manual labor on our hands putting together the pieces
of our vulnerability puzzle. After looking around the market space, we
found nothing that could really help us with this growing problem. Low
and behold, there’s a government set of standards now to put all this
together. What the heck, let’s build it\!

## The Speaker: Ed Bellis VP, CISO Orbitz Worldwide

Ed Bellis is responsible for the protection and security of all
information and electronic assets as well as compliance and ethics
across the wide array of business units that make up Orbitz Worldwide on
a global basis. These assets include Orbitz, CheapTickets, eBookers,
Away.com, HotelClub, RatesToGo, AsiaHotels, and Orbitz for Business.

With over 15 years of experience in information security and technology,
Ed has worked with and been involved in protecting information assets at
several Fortune 500 companies. Prior to joining Orbitz, Ed served as VP
of Corporate Information Security for Bank of America within their
Global Corporate and Investment Banking division. His credentials also
include several security technology and management roles at
organizations such as Ernst & Young, Ford Motor Company, and Young &
Rubicam. Ed is a CISSP, CISM, a contributor to the ISM Community, and a
member of ISC2, ISACA and the Chicago chapter of the ISSA.

Ed is a frequent speaker at information security events across North
America and Europe. Past talks have included venues such as The MIS
Institute, The Association of Information Technology Professionals,
Technology Executives Club, and the National Business Travel
Association.

[back to Presentation
Agenda](Front_Range_OWASP_Conference_2009#Agenda_and_Presentations:_5_March_2009 "wikilink")