## The Presentation: Building an Effective Application Security Program

It’s unanimous, Web application security has arrived\!”, wrote WhiteHat
Security CTO, Jeremiah Grossman, in a 12/26/2008 post to his blog. As
Jeremiah points out in his post, every major report on security lists
web applications as the number one attack vector. Assessments and
penetration tests are essential elements of any Application Security
Program, but they’re not enough. Organizations must take the next step,
and insert security directly into the development lifecycle.

### Take Aways

  - Identify the pre-requisites you’re missing in your organization, and
    where you fall on the Application Security Scale of Maturity.
  - Learn the steps involved in planning and executing an effective
    program.
  - Learn to avoid common pitfalls.

## The Speaker: Joey Peloquin

Joey Peloquin is the Director of Application Security at FishNet
Security, where he’s responsible for project oversight and quality
assurance, business development, and managing the team’s offerings and
methodologies. He’s spent the last 9 of 15 years in I.T. specializing in
Information Security, with approximately the last five specifically in
Application Security. Prior to joining FishNet Security, he created the
service offerings and methodology for Hewlett-Packard’s Application
Security Center Professional Services Team (formerly SPI Dynamics). At
HP, he managed all partner-delivered projects and was the team lead for
the internal team with the responsibility of training and mentoring new
consultants. Joey also spent nearly a decade with JCPenney Corporation,
where he built the Application Security Program, and generated
application security awareness through aggressive penetration testing
policies.

[back to Presentation
Agenda](Front_Range_OWASP_Conference_2009#Agenda_and_Presentations:_5_March_2009 "wikilink")