## The Presentation: Vulnerability Management in an Application Security World

Identifying application-level vulnerabilities via penetration tests and
code reviews is only the first step in actually addressing the
underlying risk. Managing vulnerabilities for applications is more
challenging than dealing with traditional infrastructure-level
vulnerabilities because they typically require the coordination of
security teams with application development teams and require security
managers to secure time from developers during already-cramped
development and release schedules. In addition, fixes require changes to
custom application code and application-specific business logic rather
than the patches and configuration changes that are often sufficient to
address infrastructure-level vulnerabilities.

This presentation details many of the pitfalls organizations encounter
while trying to manage application-level vulnerabilities as well as
outlines strategies security teams can use for communicating with
development teams. Similarities and differences between security teams’
practice of vulnerability management and development teams’ practice of
defect management will be addressed in order to facilitate healthy
communication between these groups.

## The Speakers: Dan Cornell & John Dickson

Dan Cornell has over ten years of experience architecting and developing
web-based software systems. He leads Denim Group’s security research
team in investigating the application of secure coding and development
techniques to improve web-based software development methodologies.

Dan was the founding coordinator and chairman for the Java Users Group
of San Antonio (JUGSA) and is currently the San Antonio chapter leader
of the Open Web Application Security Project (OWASP). He is a recognized
expert in the area of web application security for
SearchSoftwareQuality.com and the primary author of Sprajax, OWASP’s
open source tool for assessing the security of AJAX-enabled web
applications.

John Dickson is a principal at Denim Group, Ltd.and a Certified
Information Systems Security Professional (CISSP) whose technical
background includes hands-on experience with intrusion detection
systems, telephony security and application security. He has consulted
with Fortune 500 clients, Department of Defense organizations and
numerous Chief Information Officers regarding their organizations’
security programs and has served as Chief Information Security Officer
for a major healthcare organization.

John regularly speaks in front of numerous security groups including the
Information Systems Security Association (ISSA) and the Information
Systems Audit and Control Association (ISACA). He has also presented at
several conferences including CSI 2007, the annual Computer Security
Institute Conference, the Texas Regional Infrastructure Security
Conference (TRISC) and ConSec 2006. He is a founder and chairman of the
San Antonio Technology Accelerator Initiative (SATAI), a founder of the
Alamo Chapter of ISSA and the Chairman Elect of the North San Antonio
Chamber of Commerce.

[back to Presentation
Agenda](Front_Range_OWASP_Conference_2009#Agenda_and_Presentations:_5_March_2009 "wikilink")