![468x60-banner-2010.gif](468x60-banner-2010.gif
"468x60-banner-2010.gif")

[Registration](https://guest.cvent.com/EVENTS/Register/IdentityConfirmation.aspx?e=d52c6f5f-d568-4e16-b8e0-b5e2bf87ab3a)
|
[Hotel](https://resweb.passkey.com/Resweb.do?mode=welcome_gi_new&groupID=2766908)
| [Walter E. Washington Convention
Center](http://www.dcconvention.com/)
\== The presentation ==

![Owasp_logo_normal.jpg](Owasp_logo_normal.jpg
"Owasp_logo_normal.jpg")Geolocation technology has significantly evolved
over the years. Early use began with simple IP lookups and GPS
coordinates. Today, it has evolved to determining your location from
cell towers, Wifi access points and more. In fact, geolocation is one of
the fastest growing technologies being implemented in everything from
web browsers to mobile devices and of course, social networks. This is
often implemented and enabled without the user even knowing it.

Social networks have jumped onto the geolocation bandwagon with
location-based tweets, status updates, check-ins, mayorships, scavenger
hunts and more. This doesn't take into account EXIF, QR codes,
advancements in HTML 5 geo implementations and other technology. As
social networks throw our location coordinates around like candy, itâ€™s
only natural that bad things will happen and abuse of this technology
will become more popular.

This presentation will cover how social networks are currently using
geolocation, what they plan on doing with it, and a discussion on the
current privacy and security issues facing this technology. In addition,
the latest tools, techniques and code released by the presenters will be
discussed, which can be used to abuse geolocation for the ultimate in
location-based stalking power.

## Kevin Johnson and Tom Eston

**Kevin Johnson** is a security consultant and founder of Secure Ideas.
Kevin came to security from a development and system administration
background. He has many years of experience performing security services
for fortune 100 companies, and in his spare time he contributes to a
large number of open source security projects. Kevin's involvement in
open-source projects is spread across a number of projects and efforts.
He is the founder of many different projects and has worked on others.
He founded BASE, which is a Web front-end for Snort analysis. He also
founded and continues to lead the SamuraiWTF live DVD. This is a live
environment focused on Web penetration testing. He also founded Yokoso
and Laudanum, which are focused on exploit delivery. Kevin is a
certified instructor for SANS and the author of Security 542: Web
Application Penetration Testing and Ethical Hacking. He also presents at
industry events, including DEFCON and ShmooCon, and for various
organizations, like Infragard, ISACA, ISSA, and the University of
Florida.

**Tom Eston** is a Senior Security Consultant for SecureState. Tom has
previously served in many security roles for large enterprises including
leading a penetration testing team for a Fortune 500 financial
institution. Tom is actively involved in the security community and
focuses his research on the security of social media. He is the founder
of SocialMediaSecurity.com which is a website dedicated to exposing the
insecurities of social media. Tom is also a security blogger, co-host of
the Security Justice and Social Media Security podcasts and is a
frequent speaker at security user groups and national security
conferences including Notacon, OWASP AppSec, Defcon and Shmoocon.

[Category:AppSec_DC_2010_Presentations](Category:AppSec_DC_2010_Presentations "wikilink")
[Category:OWASP_Conference_Presentations](Category:OWASP_Conference_Presentations "wikilink")