## The presentation

![Kevin_Johnson.jpg](Kevin_Johnson.jpg "Kevin_Johnson.jpg")In Social
Zombies: Your Friends want to eat Your Brains, Tom Eston and Kevin
Johnson explore the various concerns related to malware delivery through
social network sites. Ignoring the FUD and confusion being sowed today,
this presentation will examine the risks and then present tools that can
be used to exploit these issues. This presentation begins by discussing
the various privacy concerns that are caused by the trust mass that is
social networks. We use this privacy confusion to exploit members and
their companies during our penetration tests. The presentation then
discusses typical botnets and bot programs. Both the delivery of this
malware through social networks and the use of these social networks as
command and control channels will be examined. Tom and Kevin next
explore the use of browser-based bots and their delivery through custom
social network applications and content. This research expands upon
previous work by researchers such as Wade Alcorn and GNUCitizen and
takes it into new C\&C directions. Finally, the information available
through the social network APIs is explored using the bot delivery
applications. This allows for complete coverage of the targets and their
information.

## The speakers

Kevin Johnson is a Senior Security Analyst with InGuardians. Kevin came
to security from a development and system administration background. He
has many years of experience performing security services for fortune
100 companies, and in his spare time contributes to a large number of
open source security projects. Kevin founded and leads the development
on B.A.S.E. (the Basic Analysis and Security Engine) project. The BASE
project is the most popular web interface for the Snort intrusion
detection system. Kevin is an instructor for SANS, teaching both the
Incident Handling and Hacker Techniques class and the Web Application
Penetration Testing and Ethical Hacking class, which he is the author.
He has presented to many organizations, including Infragard, ISACA,
ISSA, RSA and the University of Florida.

Tom Eston is a penetration tester for a Fortune 500 financial services
organization. Tom currently serves as the security assessment team lead.
Tom began his career over twelve years ago as a systems and network
administrator for several large and medium size businesses. He began his
career in security by helping form an information security department
for a real estate development company. Tom is actively involved in the
security community and focuses his research on the security of social
media. He is a contributing author to a social media eBook and has
written a Facebook Privacy & Security Guide which is used in several
major universities as part of student security awareness programs. Tom
is also a security blogger, co-host of the Security Justice podcast and
is a frequent speaker at security user groups and conferences. Tom
recently gave a talk at Notacon 6 titled "The Rise of the Autobots: Into
the Underground of Social Network Bots".

[Category:OWASP_AppSec_DC_09](Category:OWASP_AppSec_DC_09 "wikilink")
[Category:OWASP_Conference_Presentations](Category:OWASP_Conference_Presentations "wikilink")