__NOTOC__ ![468x60-banner-2010.gif](468x60-banner-2010.gif
"468x60-banner-2010.gif")

[Registration](https://guest.cvent.com/EVENTS/Register/IdentityConfirmation.aspx?e=d52c6f5f-d568-4e16-b8e0-b5e2bf87ab3a)
|
[Hotel](https://resweb.passkey.com/Resweb.do?mode=welcome_gi_new&groupID=2766908)
| [Walter E. Washington Convention
Center](http://www.dcconvention.com/)
\==Description== **Course Length: 2 Days**

This hands-on tutorial starts with a description of the security
problems faced by today's software developer, as well as a detailed
description of how defective software can be exploited. It goes on to
provide a thorough description of the best practices available to
prevent, detect, and remediate security problems in software. Next, the
tutorial includes hands-on design review exercises to reinforce each of
the concepts presented, together with dozens of examples of common
coding errors (primarily in C/C++ and Java).

## Student Requirements

All students will be expected to bring their own laptop running a copy
of the OWASP Live CD. To expedite course delivery, students should test
the functionality of the OWASP Live CD on their system prior to arrival.
<http://www.owasp.org/index.php/Category:OWASP_Live_CD_Project>

Specifically, please ensure that you're able to run the "AppSecEU May
2009 Release" of the OWASP Live CD, which can be downloaded either as an
ISO, Virtual Box image, or VMWare image from:
<http://appseclive.org/node/45>

## Objectives

Skill: Intermediate

1.  In-depth understanding of the software security problem space
2.  Hands-on experience identifying and remediating OWASP Top 10
    vulnerabilities
3.  Hands-on experience with common software security tools

## Instructor

'''Instructor: Ben Tomhave ''' is a Senior Security Analyst with Gemini
Security Solutions in Chantilly, VA, specializing in solutions
architecture, security planning, program development and management, and
other strategic security solutions. He holds a MS in Engineering
Management with an Information Security Management concentration from
The George Washington University and is a CISSP.

His experience includes developing and delivering course materials
internally and for the formal classroom environment. Course delivery
covers areas such as security awareness, information security
fundamentals, and application security. Ben has been specially trained
and authorized to deliver this program by Ken van Wyk of KRvW
Associates, LLC, to clients and AppSec DC 2010 students.

[Category:OWASP
Training/AppSec_DC_2010](Category:OWASP_Training/AppSec_DC_2010 "wikilink")
[Category:OWASP
Training/Basic](Category:OWASP_Training/Basic "wikilink")