Welcome to the **Miami - Ft. Lauderdale- Boca Raton** chapter
homepage.
The chapter leader is [**Rohini
Sulatycki**](mailto:rohini.sulatycki@gmail.com). Please go to our
[Meetup](https://www.meetup.com/South-Florida-OWASP-Chapter/) site for
current information.

*Prior Chapter Chair Positions*
Castor Morales
Felix Mack
Delfim Martins
Ivan Mozkowitz
Alexander Heid
Rishi Pande

<h2>

[<https://www.owasp.org/images/8/82/Meetup_logo3.jpg>](http://www.meetup.com/South-Florida-OWASP-Chapter/)
[South Florida
Chapter](http://www.meetup.com/South-Florida-OWASP-Chapter/) - [Click
Here More Info](http://www.meetup.com/South-Florida-OWASP-Chapter/)

</h2>


*South florida OWASP Location Sponsor:*
![<File:NSU-CEC-BlueGray.jpg>](NSU-CEC-BlueGray.jpg
"File:NSU-CEC-BlueGray.jpg")

## Local News

Note To CISSP & CISA Holders: OWASP Meetings can count towards CPE
Credits.
Be sure to hook up with us on the social network of your choice to
recieve updates on our events\!

[Facebook](http://www.facebook.com/group.php?gid=173551416019)

[Twitter](http://twitter.com/sfowasp)

[LinkedIn](http://www.linkedin.com/groupInvitation?groupID=2462364)

-----

**Wednesday, February 24, 2016 - 6:00pm - SFLOWASP 2016: 2 talks on
Botnets**

''Talk 1: XoR Botnet by Tsvetelin Choranov '' The botnet has Asian
origin infecting Linux machines performing over 20 attacks a day with
over 100 Gbps of DDoS traffic. Tsvetelin will demonstrate the process
from infection, how they infiltrated it, how they monitored it until the
day it was taken down and arrests were made in China.

Tsvetelin's security background started in Prolexic 2012 as a Security
Operations Center Engineer. His daily responsibilities were DDoS
mitigation and traffic analysis. A year ago he moved to the Akamai
Security Incident Response Team and now his primary focus are Reverse
Engineering and Exploit Research. His responsibilities have shifted from
mitigating DDoS traffic to investigating where the DDoS traffic comes
from and how botnets operate.

*Talk 2: Torte Botnet by Chad Seaman* An in depth examination of a
botnet that relied heavily on WordPress exploitation. It goes from
discovery of initial infection, reversing obfuscation and crypto, and
uncovering other parts. It resulted in a php based botnet with over 86k
infections all geared towards running brute force spamming campaigns.

Chad began his career as a developer and ultimately found more joy in
breaking things than building them. He works in the Akamai SIRT as a
Senior Security Intelligence Response Team Engineer. His day to day work
includes researching new/undiscovered means of DDoS attacks, malware
analysis, post mortem attack analysis, PoC and tool
development/analysis, and other general security research areas.

Of course afterwards, we will find a local watering hole (TBD) as
customary for a community team building event. First round is on OWASP
South Florida.

There is paid for parking in the building. There may be cheaper parking
nearby. We truly apologize for the parking situation, we are trying to
get that sorted but may be unable to prior to the event.

Facility Location: Akamai Prolexic 200 E. Las Olas Blvd, Suite 900, Fort
Lauderdale, FL

FREE CPE CREDITS\! Did you know you earn 2 CPE credits for attending an
OWASP Meeting? It's true\! Join us to feed your certs

-----

**Wednesday, October 28, 2015 - 6:00pm - SFLOWASP Special October Event:
Lobotomy - Android Reverse Engineering Framework**

''Talk 1: Lobotomy ''

  -   - New Format, New Location for this meeting \*\*\* Lecture Style
        (as usual) meeting will be held at 6:00PM to give everyone some
        time to show up.

Abstract: Lobotomy

This presentation will serve as an introduction for those who want to
dive into the art of reverse engineering Android applications and
firmware. We will explore the inner workings of the Android
architecture, traverse the landscape of reverse engineering tools and
techniques, and propose some practical methodologies and workflows for
all your bug hunting needs.

Ben Watson has over 7 dedicated years in application and mobile
security. Prior to joining GuidePoint Security, Ben has been solving
mobile & application security problems for cutting edge companies in the
financial services, eCommerce, and medical industries. Often Ben has
been sought after for building application security programs from the
ground up. This is due to his experience in not only developing testing
methodologies, tools, and techniques, but his understanding and
perspective around what it requires to build secure products. Ben has
managed and lead efforts in large mobile application security service
initiatives, and is also an experienced mobile security researcher. He
currently focuses his efforts around discovering new exploitable
vulnerability patterns in Android and iOS. He also has multiple
published zero day vulnerabilities effecting various Android web
browsers, and is the creator and curator of the Android assessment
toolkit called Lobotomy.

Of course afterwards, we will find a local watering hole (TBD) as
customary for a community team building event. First round is on OWASP
South Florida.

There is paid for parking in the building. There may be cheaper parking
nearby. We truly apologize for the parking situation, we are trying to
get that sorted but may be unable to prior to the event.

Facility Location: Akamai Prolexic 200 E. Las Olas Blvd, Suite 900, Fort
Lauderdale, FL

FREE CPE CREDITS\! Did you know you earn 2 CPE credits for attending an
OWASP Meeting? It's true\! Join us to feed your certs

-----

**Wednesday, September 30, 2015 - 5:30pm - South Florida OWASP Meeting –
1 great talk and networking after**

We will be providing a recap of OWASP AppSecUSA 2015 so plan ahead and
mark your calendars\!

''Talk 1: OWASP AppSecUSA Recap ''

Facility Location:

NOVA SOUTHEASTERN UNIVERSITY Carl DeSantis Building, Main Davie Campus
Dean Conference Room 4030 (4th floor) 3301 College Ave Fort Lauderdale,
FL 33314-7796

Phone: 800-541-NOVA (6682)

FREE CPE CREDITS\! Did you know you earn 2 CPE credits for attending an
OWASP Meeting? It's true\! Join us to feed your certs

-----

**May 2015 Joint SFISSA & OWASP Meeting – Thursday, May 21st, 5:30 –
9:00p at The Scripps Research Institute (TSRI)**

*Talk 1:Cybersecurity Risks and Controls around Cloud Environments*

Virtualization, and by extension Cloud Computing, have created amazing
benefits for IT in the forms of increased agility and efficiency with a
decrease in spending on physical infrastructure, power, & cooling. With
these great operational benefits also comes a new concentration of risk
by the addition of the Hypervisor and all of the corresponding tools for
management and automation. During this discussion we will examine the
typical IT journey towards Cloud Computing and map back how the existing
security & compliance controls available in the industry today may or
may not provide adequate compensating controls for that risk. Finally we
will discuss the gaps in those control sets and how an IT organization
can work to augment their existing controls to fill in the gaps and once
again provide a secure and compliant IT infrastructure.

*Bio: Keith Cowan*

Keith Cowan is a Senior Systems Engineer with HyTrust, a leader in cloud
security and compliance. Keith earned a MBA in Business Administration
from Dowling College and started his career with Computer Associates
(now CA Technologies). Pursuant to a successful tenure at CA
Technologies, Keith joined Internet Security Systems (ISS). At ISS, he
was the Senior Systems Engineer for the NYC metro area, working with
different verticals including Government and Financials building
environments utilizing the ISS portfolio. Keith later moved on to
Websense, as a Senior Sales Engineer handling NYC metro accounts, across
all verticals. Keith’s time as Websense helped him understand the DLP
market, and address security exposures at various customer accounts
across all verticals, and help drive PCI, HIPPA, and SOX compliance.
Keith has been an IT Security professional for over 17 years with a
focus on pre and post sales support management, system design, SAN
implementation, security practices/implementation, system integration,
project management and resource coordination.

*Talk 2: SSL/TLS, CA Issuance Transparency and the future of
Authenticated Encryption*

SSL/TLS and Certificate Authorities have been the subject of some not so
pleasant discussion lately. What with all the browser, SSL/TLS exploits
and adversaries breaching CAs to issue fake certificates for domains
they don’t even own. There are big questions like, can I currently
browse the internet securely and feel safe about my privacy? In this
talk we will go over the current state of SSL/TLS, current
concepts/fixes, certificate issuance transparency in order to detect bad
behavior and the possible future of Authenticated Encryption.

*Bio: Evan Wagner*

Evan Wagner has been in the web development industry since the mid-late
90s. He got his start when he would go to the library on Howard AFB, in
Republic of Panama, to upload his websites, via floppy disc, to
Geocities. He purchased his first domain name (Webmastersland.com) in
1999 and started his hosting company in 2000. It was about that time he
became a Linux breakfast cereal kid, installing Linux on everything and
taking on any tasks he could to prove to people the power of Linux.
After years of this he found himself in positions of increasing
responsibility. Just to name a few: DBA for Florida Cancer Specialists
($1Bn+ yearly revenue), Various DevOps roles, Networking roles
(BGP,SS7), International SMS/MMS communication engineering (tracing
messages from handset to handset as well as deploying solutions to
carriers) at Interop Technologies, Sr. Software Architect and currently
Systems Software Engineer within Security Engineering at Akamai
Technologies. During all this time security has always been always been
a focus as he has seen first hand many exploits/attempts over the years
and how to mitigate them.

Facility Location: *The Scripps Institute* The meeting will take place
in the auditorium in Building B

Venue and Directions

Directions from the North (via Florida Turnpike or I-95)

On the turnpike exit at Indiantown Road, drive east to I-95 and go south
one exit to Donald Ross Road (I-95 exit \#83). Exit and drive east (left
turn at exit traffic light). Turn left onto Central Blvd. Drive around
the first traffic circle to the entrance of Scripps Florida (just beyond
intersection of Main Street). Park in the “Visitor” parking in front of
Building B. Check in with the security guard in Building B.

Directions from the South (via Florida Turnpike or I-95)

From the turnpike exit at PGA Blvd., drive east to I-95 and then go
north one exit to Donald Ross Road (I-95 exit \#83). Exit and drive east
(right turn at exit traffic light). Turn left onto Central Blvd. Drive
around the first traffic circle to the entrance of Scripps Florida (just
beyond intersection of Main Street). Park in the “Visitor” parking in
front of Building B. Check in with the security guard in Building B.

FREE CPE CREDITS\! Did you know you earn 2 CPE credits for attending an
OWASP Meeting? It's true\! Join us to feed your certs

-----

**Wednesday, March 18, 2015 - 5:30pm - South Florida OWASP Meeting – 2
great talks and networking after**

This is the first meeting for 2015\! We have an excellent line up of
speakers, topics, and networking scheduled for you so plan ahead and
mark your calendars\!

*Talk 1: Application Security - A fresh perspective*

Breaches are in the news as never before and it is clear that
application security is falling behind. Different technologies are being
introduced and application security does not appear to be keeping up
with these changes.

In this talk we will discuss some different approaches that have been
successfully employed by several leading technology organizations. These
include creating attack aware applications using application sensors,
continuous deployment and the advantages of bug bounty programs.

*Bio: Rohini Sulatycki*

Rohini Sulatycki is a Senior Security Consultant within the Application
Security practice at Trustwave's SpiderLabs. Rohini has been involved in
the Information Technology industry for more than 16 years. Rohini
specializes in application security testing, code reviews and secure
software development conducting a large number of application,
virtualization, mobile and external network tests in her capacity at
Trustwave. She has also conducted Secure Development Training classes
for clients worldwide. She has strong foundations in software
engineering, design and architecture and implementing enterprise
applications. Rohini has a background implementing and reviewing all
types of applications, from traditional client/server applications to
web applications and web services. Rohini has served as the president of
the Kansas City OWASP chapter and a member of the High Technology Crime
Investigation Association (HTCIA) and is the current co-chair of the
South Florida OWASP chapter. She has been a technical reviewer for
several books and publications including Java Security and IEEE Security
and Privacy. She has also presented at various industry events including
Black Hat and OWASP FROC.

*Talk 2: Crypto: Doing it wrong*

Cryptography is a dark art to many developers. Errors in implementations
can appear. This talk is design to highlight the last few implementation
flaws and how attackers can abuse them.

*Bio: Moses Hernandez*

My name is Moses Hernandez. I’ve been in the Information Security
‘industry’ professionally since the late 90′s. Having worked in and
around the industry for as long as I have, you get to wear many hats and
see many things. From Network Engineering and Architecture and also
getting involved in Software, Applications, Development and other
aspects of computer science I have no business being in. He has worked
for SANS as a Instructor for their Penetration Testing Courses as well
as worked for at an Architect Capacity for many years. He is currently
employed with Cisco Systems. If you want to talk about the intricacies
of building scalable networks or get down in debugging software we can
have both conversations comfortably. But you know what really gets me
going? People, Companies, Software, and our community.

Facility Location:

NOVA SOUTHEASTERN UNIVERSITY Carl DeSantis Building, Main Davie Campus
Dean Conference Room 4030 (4th floor) 3301 College Ave Fort Lauderdale,
FL 33314-7796

Phone: 800-541-NOVA (6682)

FREE CPE CREDITS\! Did you know you earn 2 CPE credits for attending an
OWASP Meeting? It's true\! Join us to feed your certs

-----

**Wednesday, Oct 15, 2014 - 5:30pm - Joint South Florida OWASP & ISSA
Meeting – 2 great talks and networking after**

Our October 2014 meeting will be the annual joint meeting between the
South Florida ISSA chapter the South Florida OWASP chapter. We have an
excellent line up of speakers, topics, and networking scheduled for you
so plan ahead and mark your calendars\!

*Talk 1: Software Security Assurance: Keeping your security program on
the rails*

In working with dozens of organizations across all industries, a common
theme has emerged as it relates to effective implementation of software
security assurance programs: they generally are not effective. In fact,
in numerous cases, programs are often shelved outright after several
years of multiple implementation attempts. An obvious downside of this
failure is a lack of return on security technology investments. The
reasons for failure vary, but it often comes down to an absence of
management commitment, a lack of focus, or simply insufficient awareness
and education amongst stakeholders. This presentation explores why
programs do not get off the ground or flounder after launch, and what
can and should be done to prevent or correct those situations.
Developers, project leads, architects and information security managers
will benefit from discussions about the key elements to effective
security program implementation.

*Bio: Bruce Jenkins*

Bruce C Jenkins, CISSP, leads HP Fortify’s Software Security Assurance
(SSA) enablement strategy and works regularly with customers on SSA
program development and measurement. He is a 28-year US Air Force
veteran who has been a Fortify evangelist and builder of SSA solutions
since 2007. He has supported more than 60 professional services
engagements and collected data on more than 350 security assessments
across all industry sectors. Bruce hold a BS in computer science and MS
in management science.

*Talk 2: AppSec at DevOps Speed and Portfolio Scale*

Software development is moving much faster than application security
with new platforms, languages, frameworks, paradigms, and methodologies
like Agile and Devops.

Unfortunately, software assurance hasn't kept up with the times. For the
most part, our security techniques were built to work with the way
software was built in 2002. Here are some of the technologies and
practices that today's best software assurance techniques
\*can't\*handle: JavaScript, Ajax, inversion of control, aspect-oriented
programming, frameworks, libraries, SOAP, REST, web services, XML, JSON,
raw sockets, HTML5, Agile, DevOps, WebSocket, Cloud, and more. All of
these rest pretty much at the core of modern software development.

Although we're making progress in application security, the gains are
much slower than the stunning advances in software development. After 10
years of getting further behind every day, software \*assurance\* is now
largely incompatible with modern software \*development\*. It's not just
security tools -- application security processes are largely
incompatible as well. And the result is that security has very little
influence on the software trajectory at all.

Unless the application security community figures out how to be a
relevant part of software development, we will continue to lag behind
and effect minimal change. In this talk, I will explore a radically
different approach based on instrumenting an entire IT organization with
passive sensors to collect realtime data that can be used to identify
vulnerabilities, enhance security architecture, and (most importantly)
enable application security to generate value. The goal is unprecedented
real-time visibility into application security across an organization's
entire application portfolio, allowingall the stakeholders in security
to collaborate and finally become proactive.

[Media:
2014-10_OWASP_SF_Continuous.pdf](Media:_2014-10_OWASP_SF_Continuous.pdf "wikilink")

*Bio: Jeff Williams* Jeff Williams is a founder and CEO of Aspect
Security and recently launched Contrast Security, a new approach to
application security analysis. Jeff was an OWASP Founder and served as
Global Chairman from 2004 to 2012, contributing many projects including
the OWASP Top Ten, WebGoat, ESAPI, ASVS, and more. Jeff is passionate
about making it possible for anyone to do his or her own continuous
application security in real time.

Facility Location:

NOVA SOUTHEASTERN UNIVERSITY Carl DeSantis Building, Main Davie Campus
Room 1052 3301 College Ave Fort Lauderdale, FL 33314-7796

Phone: 800-541-NOVA (6682)

FREE CPE CREDITS\! Did you know you earn 2 CPE credits for attending an
OWASP Meeting? It's true\! Join us to feed your certs

-----

**Wednesday, May 21, 2014 - 5:00pm - South Florida OWASP Meeting – 2
great talks and networking after**

*Talk 1: Agile Security*

Agile, DevOps, and the Security Practioner? I have worked in this
business for almost 15 years now. I left for a few years because of the
misery of the industry. Or so I thought? I really went to go find
myself. When I came back I found that I was a different person. What I
learned about working outside of Information Security is that we really
have lost touch and have stopped relating with our peers. I felt the
schism very much so. Lets fix that. This talk is about our Industry and
about us. Its about Culture, People over Tools, what we need to do to be
successful, and how we need to work together. Its about what the next 15
years will be for us and why its important that we much adopt and change
the way we are.

If you don’t understand the fight or flight moment we all face then we
will be replaced with those who do understand it. It’s not that we won’t
be subject matter experts, or that we are not some of the brightest
minds in our fields. The problem is we can’t get out of own way. In this
mostly visually impactful, entertaining talk, I present a way out. We
must be brave to embrace it. Most of all, we must start that education
process now, because we are already behind the eight ball. This talk is
built like a sermon, almost religious like, because make no mistakes,
The way to solve the problem is to start re-thinking who we are and why
we are here. The time is now.

*Bio: Moses Hernandez*

My name is Moses Hernandez. I’ve been in the Information Security
‘industry’ professionally since the late 90′s. Having worked in and
around the industry for as long as I have, you get to wear many hats and
see many things. From Network Engineering and Architecture and also
getting involved in Software, Applications, Development and other
aspects of computer science I have no business being in.

He has worked for SANS as a Instructor for their Penetration Testing
Courses as well as worked for at an Architect Capacity for many years.
He is currently employed with Cisco Systems. If you want to talk about
the intricacies of building scalable networks or get down in debugging
software we can have both conversations comfortably. But you know what
really gets me going? People, Companies, Software, and our community.

*Talk 2: 3rd party application software controls*

All businesses depend on software from third-party software providers
and commercial off-the-shelf software (COTS) vendors. Organizations can
hope the software from third parties is built securely, but hope isn’t a
viable security strategy. Recent breaches highlight that understanding
risks introduced by third party software can impact an organization’s
confidentiality, integrity and availability. However, a recent study by
PWC highlighted that only 20% of organizations consider the impact of
3rd party risk in their security strategy. The FS-ISAC published
controls for addressing third party risks in your software. This
presentation talks through the 3 technical controls recommended and how
you can benefit from them.

*Bio: Rishi Pande*

Facility Location:

NOVA SOUTHEASTERN UNIVERSITY Carl DeSantis Building, Main Davie Campus
Dean Conference Room 4030(4th Floor) 3301 College Ave Fort Lauderdale,
FL 33314-7796

Phone: 800-541-NOVA (6682)

FREE CPE CREDITS\! Did you know you earn 2 CPE credits for attending an
OWASP Meeting? It's true\! Join us to feed your certs

-----

**Wednesday, March 19, 2014 - 5:00pm - South Florida OWASP Meeting – 2
great talks and networking after**

*Talk 1: Classification, Facets, and Conceptual Space in Security
Analysis and the Use of Patterns*

Security is a complicated field. It involves many different situations,
technologies, vulnerabilities, policies and regulations, with challenges
that differ from one domain to the next. At the same time, security must
be comprehensive. It is not sufficient to be good at only some things,
or in some areas. The patterns community has responded to the challenge
by documenting best practices in the form of patterns. To date, there
are more than 400 security patterns, and the number keeps growing, which
creates a problem of its own. How do you know which patterns address
your situation? We haven’t solved this problem. But we have made
progress by redefining the task from “How do you classify patterns?” to
“How do you divide up the problem space into meaningful regions of
concern where useful patterns might be found?” In this talk we describe
a method of subdividing concerns specific to the problem of security,
based to George Miller’s idea of concept grids. An interesting feature
of this work is that it creates a framework for discussing security
concerns and investigating spaces that aren’t covered, as well as those
that are.

Bio: Dr. Van Hilst is an associate professor in the Farquhar College of
Arts and Sciences at Nova Southeastern University. Prior to joining
Nova, he taught at Florida Atlantic University, served as VP for
Technology at a firewall startup, and was a member of the technical
staff at HP Labs in Palo Alto. Earlier he worked on data analysis at
Harvard University, code development at IBM Research, and signal
processing for the French government. Dr. Van Hilst earned his PhD in
Computer Science from the University of Washington and holds three
degrees from MIT. He is the author of more than 40 articles on security
and software engineering.

[Media:Vanhilst_owasp_140319.pdf](Media:Vanhilst_owasp_140319.pdf "wikilink")

*Talk 2: Secure by Design*

Building security into the SDLC is essential to creating secure
applications. The cost of security issues identified during during an
application penetration test or code review can be exponentially higher
than addressing these security concerns earlier in the SDLC. This talk
will address integrating security into the requirements,architecture and
design process. We will walk through misuse cases, threat modeling and
review security design patterns.

Bio: Rohini Sulatycki is a Senior Security Consultant within the
Application Security practice at Trustwave's SpiderLabs. Rohini has been
involved in the Information Technology industry for more than 16 years.
Rohini specializes in application security testing, code reviews and
secure software development conducting a large number of application,
virtualization, mobile and external network tests in her capacity at
Trustwave. She has also conducted Secure Development Training classes
for clients worldwide. She has strong foundations in software
engineering, design and architecture and implementing enterprise
applications. Rohini has a background implementing and reviewing all
types of applications, from traditional client/server applications to
web applications and web services. Rohini has served as the president of
the Kansas City OWASP chapter and a member of the High Technology Crime
Investigation Association (HTCIA) and is the current co-chair of the
South Florida OWASP chapter. She has been a technical reviewer for
several books and publications including Java Security and IEEE Security
and Privacy. She has also presented at various industry events including
Black Hat and OWASP FROC.

[Media:Sulatycki_Secure-By-Design_140319.pdf](Media:Sulatycki_Secure-By-Design_140319.pdf "wikilink")

Facility Location:

NOVA SOUTHEASTERN UNIVERSITY Carl DeSantis Building, Main Davie Campus
Dean Conference Room (4th Floor) 3301 College Ave Fort Lauderdale, FL
33314-7796

Phone: 800-541-NOVA (6682)

FREE CPE CREDITS\! Did you know you earn 2 CPE credits for attending an
OWASP Meeting? It's true\! Join us to feed your certs

-----

**Wednesday, September 25, 2013 - 5:00pm - South Florida OWASP Meeting –
Joint meeting with South Florida ISSA, networking after**

*Talk 1: BYOP: Bring Your Own Policy*

How to write (by consensus) Information Security, Internet use and
privacy policies, come away with a policy written by the group. (and you
will see why it’s hard to please everyone). We will start with a
downloaded sample BYOD / smartphone policy, talk about the basics, what
is BYOD, legal issues, security issues, safety issues and write a BYOD /
mobile device policy. Takeaways include 15 most important policies,
policy checklist, Sample BYOD / smartphone policy

Bio: Michael Scheidell is a recognized expert in the information
security and privacy community with a strong history of innovation and
entrepreneurship. Frequent conference speaker and subject matter expert
in InfoSec and Digital Privacy issues. Developed a suite of IT security
products with impressive results—including a patented intrusion
detection system, an award-winning email security solution and a
revolutionary IT Risk and Assessment framework currently used by large
multinational companies, healthcare organizations and financial
institutions to ensure their privacy and security. Certified CISO
(C|CISO), Member FBI Infragard, ISSA, ISACA, IAPP. Managing Director of
Security Privateers.

*Talk 2: What's Hiding in Your Software Components? Hidden Risks of
Component-Based Software*

Software is no longer written, it's assembled. With 80% of a typical
application now being assembled from components, it's time to take a
hard look at the new risks posed by this type of development -- and the
processes and tools that we'll need in order to keep them in check.

Join Ryan Berg, Sonatype CSO, as he shares real world data on component
risks, outlines the scope of the problem, and proposes approaches for
managing these risk. You'll learn how security professionals can work
cooperatively with application developers to reduce risk AND boost
developer efficiency.

Bio: Ryan is the Chief Security Officer at Sonatype. Before joining
Sonatype, Ryan was a co-founder and chief scientist for Ounce Labs which
was acquired by IBM in 2009. Ryan holds multiple patents and is a
popular speaker, instructor and author, in the fields of security, risk
management, and secure application development.

Facility Location:

NOVA SOUTHEASTERN UNIVERSITY Carl DeSantis Building, Main Davie Campus
Room 3035 3301 College Ave Fort Lauderdale, FL 33314-7796

Phone: 800-541-NOVA (6682)

FREE CPE CREDITS\! Did you know you earn 2 CPE credits for attending an
OWASP Meeting? It's true\! Join us to feed your certs

-----

**Wednesday, July 17th, 2013 - 6:00pm - South Florida OWASP Meeting –
Great talk and networking after**

Talk 1: A Security Reference Architecture for Cloud Systems

Reference architectures (RAs) are becoming useful tools to understand
and build complex systems and many cloud providers and software product
vendors have developed versions of them. However, until now few security
reference architectures have appeared. Almost all of them use rather
imprecise models and this appears to be the first attempt to define them
more precisely. We propose here a Security Reference Architecture (SRA)
defined using UML models and incorporating our approach to build secure
systems. By SRA we mean a RA where security services have been added in
appropriate places to provide some degree of security for the complete
cloud environment. We use as starting point our own cloud reference
architecture and we combine security patterns and misuse patterns to
build a secure reference architecture. By checking if a threat,
expressed as a misuse pattern, can be stopped or mitigated in the secure
reference architecture, we can evaluate its level of security. We have
done a systematic enumeration of cloud threats and have started building
a catalog of cloud misuse patterns; with a complete catalog we can apply
them systematically and use the reference architecture to find where we
should add corresponding security patterns to stop them. We are also
building a catalog of cloud security patterns; security patterns join
the extensive knowledge accumulated about security with the structure
provided by patterns to provide guidelines for secure system design and
evaluation.

Bio: Eduardo B. Fernandez is a professor in the Department of Computer
Science and Engineering at Florida Atlantic University, Boca Raton,
Florida. He is now a Visiting Professor at Universidad Tecnica Federico
Santa María, Valparaiso, Chile. He has published numerous papers on
security models, and object-oriented analysis/design, including two
books on security patterns. He has lectured all over the world at both
academic and industrial meetings. His current interests include software
architecture, cloud computing, and security patterns. He holds a MS
degree in Electrical Engineering from Purdue University and a Ph.D. in
Computer Science from UCLA. He is a Senior Member of the IEEE, and a
Member of ACM. He is an active consultant for industry. More details:
<http://www.cse.fau.edu/~ed>

[Media:SecResearchOWASP7-2013.pdf](Media:SecResearchOWASP7-2013.pdf "wikilink")

Facility Location:

NOVA SOUTHEASTERN UNIVERSITY Carl DeSantis Building, Main Davie Campus
Room 1124 Knight Lecture Hall Auditorium 3301 College Ave Fort
Lauderdale, FL 33314-7796

Phone: 800-541-NOVA (6682)

FREE CPE CREDITS\! Did you know you earn 2 CPE credits for attending an
OWASP Meeting? It's true\! Join us to feed your certs

-----

**Wednesday, April 24th, 2013 - 5:00pm - South Florida OWASP Meeting –
Two great talks and networking after**

Join us for our April meeting where we will have two great talks. Please
note that the scheduled talks are for 60 minutes each with a small break
in between. We will have a networking event after as usual.

*Talk 1: Threat Modeling*

As we focus on the threats that plaque our organizations we not only
need to understand the threat but also understand the steps used by the
attackers. Profiling these attacks enables threat modeling allowing
yourself and your organization to understand how to successfully
position yourself against threat actors and adversaries. In this session
I will share some high level attack profiles or patterns and how we
should look at them to successfully set your organizational course and
security strategy. I will also share some detailed models which he has
previously developed to help organizations successfully model for web
application threats.

Bio:James Robinson is Head of Security Architecture and a Strategy
Officer at Websense. His key responsibilities are internal security
strategy development, innovation, and Websense Strategy. James brings
more than a decade of both IT and product engineering security
leadership to Websense. He has previously held senior positions with
Fortune 150 and Fortune 100 companies including: Emerson Electric,
Anheuser- Busch and State Farm Insurance and holds more than 10 industry
certifications. Throughout his career James has delivered solutions for
network architecture and application security, penetration testing,
incident response, security and risk assessment, forensics and
investigations and product security.

*Talk 2: Adding Security to BPEL Workflows of Web Services*

BPEL (Business Process Enterprise Language) is a language for web
services composition and several implementations of it exist. For BPEL
to be effective, it is necessary that it provides more support for
security. BPEL doesn’t present any means to specify security constraints
for workflows. BPEL through its activities tries to provide specific
functional aspects and any non-functional aspects are expected to be
addressed by other (lower-level) specifications. We present here a way
to specify security requirements in BPEL. Since BPEL describes
workflows, we present its activities using UML activity diagrams, where
we apply a threat enumeration approach to determine the required
security mechanisms to stop these threats. Our approach goes beyond BPEL
and can be applied to BPMN and other business flow languages.

Bio:Ola Ajaj is a PhD candidate in the Dept. of Computer and Electrical
Engineering and Computer Science at Florida Atlantic University, Boca
Raton, Florida. His current interests include secure systems, web
services, cloud computing, and mobile platforms. He holds a MS degree in
Computer Engineering from Florida Atlantic University. While completing
his education, he worked for Motorola, BlackBerry (RIM before) and IBM.
He has published papers on patterns for web services standards, and he
continues his PhD dissertation under Dr. Eduardo B. Fernandez
supervision.

Facility Location: NOVA SOUTHEASTERN UNIVERSITY Carl DeSantis Building,
Main Davie Campus Room 1052 Located on the 1st floor Eastside of the
Building 3301 College Ave Fort Lauderdale, FL 33314-7796

`Phone: 800-541-NOVA (6682) `

FREE CPE CREDITS\! Did you know you earn 2 CPE credits for attending an
OWASP Meeting? It's true\! Join us to feed your certs.

-----

**Wednesday, February 27th, 2013 - 5:00pm - South Florida OWASP Meeting
– One great talk and networking after**

Join us for our first meeting of 2013 where we will have one great talk:
The OWASP Top 10 2013 rc1\!. Our event sponsor, NoVA will also be there
with some important announcements

*Talk: OWASP Top 10 2013 rc1*

The primary aim of the OWASP Top 10 is to educate developers, designers,
architects and organizations about the consequences of the most
important web application security weaknesses. The Top 10 provides basic
methods to protect against these high risk problem areas and provides
guidance on where to go from there. The Top 10 project is referenced by
many standards, books, tools, and organizations, including MITRE, PCI
DSS, DISA, FTC, and many more. The OWASP Top 10 was initially released
in 2003 and minor updates were made in 2004, 2007, and 2010.

The latest and greatest OWASP Top 10 2013 rc1 has just been released\!
Come and get a first hand view of the changes to the OWASP Top 10. Make
sure that you don't miss this great opportunity to start the year
right\!

Bio: Rohini Sulatycki is a Senior Security Consultant within the
Application Security practice at Trustwave's SpiderLabs. SpiderLabs is
the advanced security team responsible for Penetration Testing,
Application Security, Incident Response, and Payment Application testing
for Trustwave's clients. Rohini has been involved in the Information
Technology industry for more than 16 years. Rohini specializes in
application security testing, code reviews and secure software
development conducting a large number of application, virtualization,
mobile and external network tests in her capacity at Trustwave. She has
strong foundations in software engineering, design and architecture and
implementing enterprise applications. Rohini has a background
implementing and reviewing all types of applications, from traditional
client/server applications to web applications and web services. Rohini
has served as the president of the Kansas City OWASP chapter and a
member of the High Technology Crime Investigation Association (HTCIA)
and is the current co-chair of the South Florida OWASP chapter. She has
been a technical reviewer for several books and publications including
Java Security and IEEE Security and Privacy. She has also presented at
various industry events including Black Hat and OWASP FROC on topics
such as Web application security, Ajax security concerns and Flash
application security.

Facility Location: NOVA SOUTHEASTERN UNIVERSITY Carl DeSantis Building,
Main Davie Campus Knight Lecture Hall (Room 1124) 3301 College Ave Fort
Lauderdale, FL 33314-7796

`Phone: 800-541-NOVA (6682) `

FREE CPE CREDITS\! Did you know you earn 2 CPE credits for attending an
OWASP Meeting? It's true\! Join us to feed your certs.

**Wednesday, Nov 28, 2012 - 5:00pm - South Florida OWASP Meeting - Two
great talks and networking after**

Join us for our November meeting where we will have two great talks.
Please note that the scheduled talks are for 45 minutes each with a
small break in between. We will have a networking event after as usual.

*Talk 1: Keis Air Vulnerabilities*

In this talk, the security issues found (CVE-2012-5858, CVE-2012-5859)
in the default installation of the Kies Air Android application bundled
with every new Samsung Galaxy S3 will be uncovered. A shell script will
be released making detection of running Kies Air simple to explore while
bypassing device administration to obtain phone contents or the option
to crash the application at will. This is the result of private research
and the findings will be publicly disclosed along with tools and a
whitepaper.

Bio: Claudio J. Lacayo causes 500 response errors in web applications
and is currently evangelizing the use of native code over frameworks.

*Talk 2: The Story Behind the Dirt Jumper SQL Injection Whitepaper - An
Analysis of DDoS C\&C Vulnerabilities*

The team from Prolexic Technologies PLXsert will talk about their
research on vulnerabilities within the Dirt Jumper DDoS botnet. This
research has been featured in multiple global media outlets and made
international headlines. The talk will discuss the methods, tools, and
techniques that were used in the discovery of this vulnerability and the
implications for the future of DDoS infrastructures. PLXsert will also
discuss the latest trends, techniques, and methodologies being utilized
in the DDoS threatscape.

<http://arstechnica.com/security/2012/08/ddos-take-down-manual/>

<http://www.theregister.co.uk/2012/08/15/dirt_jumper_ddos_tool_flaw/>

<http://threatpost.com/en_us/blogs/researchers-find-flaw-dirt-jumper-bot-081512>

<http://www.csoonline.com/article/714000/popular-dirt-jumper-ddos-toolkit-riddled-with-security-flaws-research-finds>

<http://www.darkreading.com/vulnerability-management/167901026/security/news/240005474/prolexic-exposes-vulnerabilities-in-dirt-jumper-ddos-toolkit-family.html>

<http://www.xakep.ru/post/59168/>

Bio: PLXsert monitors malicious cyber threats globally and analyzes DDoS
attacks using proprietary techniques and equipment. Through digital
forensics and post-attack analysis, PLXsert is able to build a global
view of DDoS attacks, which is shared with customers and the security
community. By identifying the sources and associated attributes of
individual attacks, the PLXsert team helps organizations adopt best
practices and make more informed, proactive decisions about DDoS
threats.

Please vote on our new poll and let us know what future topics you would
like to see presented at our meetings this year :
<http://www.linkedin.com/groupItem?view=&gid=2462364&type=member&item=101892186&qid=641ae738-dc10-48a0-8eaa-64b664bf99f2&trk=group_most_popular-0-b-ttl&goback=.gmp_2462364>

Facility Location: NOVA SOUTHEASTERN UNIVERSITY Carl DeSantis Building,
Main Davie Campus Room TBD 3301 College Ave Fort Lauderdale, FL
33314-7796 Phone: 800-541-NOVA (6682)

FREE CPE CREDITS\! Did you know you earn 2 CPE credits for attending an
OWASP Meeting? It's true\! Join us to feed your certs.

**Wednesday, Sept 26, 2012 - 5:00pm - South Florida OWASP Meeting - Two
great talks and networking after**

Join us for our September meeting where we will have two great talks.
Please note that the scheduled talks are for 30 minutes each with a
small break in between. We will have a networking event after as usual.
Our event sponsor, NoVA will also be there with some important
announcements

*Talk 1: Application Vulnerability Assessment Risk (AVAR) Score*

During application vulnerability assessment a number of vulnerabilities
may be discovered. Issues discovered during this assessment are given a
risk score value or a rating of High, Medium, or Low; mostly based on
the Common Vulnerability Scoring System (CVSS) or Common Weakness
Enumeration (CWE) risk classification of known vulnerabilities. The
industry application vulnerability risk classification models assign a
risk level to an issue based on the impact of the specific
vulnerability. They do not put into consideration the likelihood of
occurrence based on known reported incidents or the impact of
interdependencies between related vulnerabilities. The AVAR Score has
implemented an approach that provides a holistic analysis on the risk of
an application based on the interdependencies of related vulnerabilities
and the probability of occurrence.

Bio: An avid learner, Jummy has a degree in Engineering Physics but has
always been interested in information security and she decided to make a
career of it. Over the years, Jummy’s work has included application
vulnerability assessments, security audits, and risk assessments for a
wide variety of local, national, and international organizations. When
she is not occupied with work she tries to invent new cooking recipes
and she also volunteers as a mentor to young adults.

*Talk 2: JSON Hijacking*

JavaScript Object Notation (JSON) is a language and platform independent
format for data interchange. JSON is in widespread use with a number of
JSON parsers and libraries available for different languages. While some
information is available for JSON Hijacking this attack is not very well
understood.

Rohini Sulatycki will give an overview of this attack as well as provide
a demonstration.

Bio: Rohini Sulatycki is a Senior Security Consultant within the
Application Security practice at Trustwave's SpiderLabs. SpiderLabs is
the advanced security team responsible for Penetration Testing,
Application Security, Incident Response, and Payment Application testing
for Trustwave's clients. Rohini has been involved in the Information
Technology industry for more than 16 years. Rohini specializes in
application security testing, code reviews and secure software
development conducting a large number of application, virtualization and
external network tests in her capacity at Trustwave. She has strong
foundations in software engineering, design and architecture and
implementing enterprise applications. Rohini has a background
implementing and reviewing all types of applications, from traditional
client/server applications to web applications and web services. Rohini
has served as the president of the Kansas City OWASP chapter and a
member of the High Technology Crime Investigation Association (HTCIA)
and is the current co-chair of the South Florida OWASP chapter. She has
been a technical reviewer for several books and publications including
Java Security and IEEE Security and Privacy. She has also presented at
various industry events including Black Hat and OWASP FROC on topics
such as Web application security, Ajax security concerns and Flash
application security.

Please vote on our new poll and let us know what future topics you would
like to see presented at our meetings this year :
<http://www.linkedin.com/groupItem?view=&gid=2462364&type=member&item=101892186&qid=641ae738-dc10-48a0-8eaa-64b664bf99f2&trk=group_most_popular-0-b-ttl&goback=.gmp_2462364>

Facility Location: NOVA SOUTHEASTERN UNIVERSITY Carl DeSantis Building,
Main Davie Campus Knight Lecture Hall (Room 1124) 3301 College Ave Fort
Lauderdale, FL 33314-7796

`Phone: 800-541-NOVA (6682) `

FREE CPE CREDITS\! Did you know you earn 2 CPE credits for attending an
OWASP Meeting? It's true\! Join us to feed your certs.

**Wednesday, June 27, 2012 - 6:00pm - South Florida OWASP Meeting - Two
great talks and networking after**

Join us for our June meeting where we will have two great talks. Please
note that the scheduled talks are for 30 minutes each with a small break
in between. We will have a networking event after as usual.

''Talk 1: Bad encryption implementations using PBKDF2 ''

PBKDF2 is a popular way to generate long encryption keys from
human-memorable passwords and passphrases. Used properly, it can keep
encrypted sensitive data safe from attackers long enough for its
ultimate compromise to be almost moot (assuming the attacker doesn't
lose interest and give up first). Used badly, in conjunction with
poorly-implemented AES encryption, it will protect sensitive data for
approximately 5 minutes against an attacker with a 2 year old laptop and
a list of compromised real-world passwords obtained from popular
websites.

Presenter Bio: Jeff Skubick is a security analyst with more than a
decade of professional experience developing mobile and web applications
for companies like Verizon, and a lifetime of recreational hacking that
extends far enough back into childhood to remember what happens when you
JSR to $FFD2. His second language was 6502 assembly. As a teenager, he
doubled his Amiga’s RAM by soldering piggybacked chips onto the
motherboard, then spent 10 minutes on the phone with Dave Haynie
learning what a "slow PAL" was. In his spare time, he invalidates
warranties, builds robots, and takes liberties with local building codes
in the name of home automation. He will never, ever make the mistake of
buying another Motorola Android phone with a locked bootloader.

*Talk 2: Mobile Framework vulnerabilities*

Mobile frameworks are being used for cross-platform development and to
ease development efforts in producing applications for
iOS/Android/Blackberry devices. In this talk we observe bad development
practices and expose some issues found in open source frameworks,
notably Apache Cordova (previously known as "PhoneGap").

Presenter Bio: Claudio J. Lacayo causes 500 response errors in web
applications and is currently evangelizing the use of native code over
frameworks.

Please vote on our new poll and let us know what future topics you would
like to see presented at our meetings this year :
<http://www.linkedin.com/groupItem?view=&gid=2462364&type=member&item=101892186&qid=641ae738-dc10-48a0-8eaa-64b664bf99f2&trk=group_most_popular-0-b-ttl&goback=.gmp_2462364>

Facility Location: NOVA SOUTHEASTERN UNIVERSITY Carl DeSantis Building,
Main Davie Campus Knight Lecture Hall (Room 1124) 3301 College Ave Fort
Lauderdale, FL 33314-7796

`Phone: 800-541-NOVA (6682) `

FREE CPE CREDITS\! Did you know you earn 2 CPE credits for attending an
OWASP Meeting? It's true\! Join us to feed your certs.

**Wednesday, April 25, 2012 - 5:00pm - South Florida OWASP Meeting - Two
great talks and networking after**

Join us for our February meeting where in alignment with our previous
announcement, we will have two great talks. Please note that food and
drink after the meeting will also be sponsored by DBNetworks and OWASP.

*Talk 1: How is static analysis is like hunting foxes in the forest?*

A brief guide to tools assisted secure code review. Includes a
discussion of challenges and recommendations to make your work in static
analysis and secure code review more effective.

Presenter Bio: Sean Matthiesen is a Senior Consultant at Cigital, Inc.
His expertise is in software development, secure code review, and static
code analysis. Sean has provided consulting services to several large
commercial clients and has been involved in the development of many
mission critical software applications. Over the last 22 years, he has
worked as a developer in multiple programming languages, including C++
and Java.

Prior to joining Cigital, Inc., Sean built and managed the static
analysis team at a fortune 500 company where he was responsible for all
aspects of secure software development including security awareness
training, static analysis tool support, secure code review, security
architecture review, and software security audits. He has trained over
500 developers on the use of Secure Application Development using IBM
Rational AppScan Source, 250 developers on secure software development,
and contributed to multiple online CBTs courses. Sean has over 5 years
of hands on experience using the Ounce/AppScan Source product. He holds
a B.S. in Computer Science from Principia College.

*Talk 2: SQL Injection*

New reports of SQL injection attacks, on corporate databases, are
appearing almost weekly. Applications free from vulnerabilities are
always the best defense, but a better backstop is clearly needed since
existing solutions are unable to defend against this threat. DBNetworks
will present its vision for a future technology which will protect
against new and unique SQL injection attacks in real-time.

Presenter Bio: Prior to coming on board at DBNetworks as the Director of
Systems Engineering, Stuart Hancock was the Enterprise Cloud Program
Manager at Cisco Systems; prior to that, he held positions at Cisco as a
consulting engineer and HPC architect, and has worked in the past for a
number of startups, as well as EMC, IPivot (acquired by Intel for
$500M), Intel, and Wang Laboratories.

Facility Location: NOVA SOUTHEASTERN UNIVERSITY Carl DeSantis Building,
Main Davie Campus Room 1124 3301 College Ave Fort Lauderdale, FL
33314-7796

FREE CPE CREDITS\! Did you know you earn 2 CPE credits for attending an
OWASP Meeting? It's true\! Join us to feed your certs.

**Thursday. February 23, 2012 - 5:00pm - South Florida OWASP Meeting -
Two great talks and networking after**

Join us for our February meeting where in alignment with our previous
announcement, we will have two great talks. Please note that food and
drink after the meeting will also be sponsored by WhiteHat.

*Talk 1: Future of Cross Site Scripting defenses*

This talk will discuss the past methods used for cross-site scripting
(XSS) defense that were only partially effective. Learning from these
lessons, we will also discuss present day defensive methodologies that
are effective, but place an undue burden on the developer. We will then
finish with a discussion of future XSS defense mythologies that shift
the burden of XSS defense from the developer to various frameworks.
These include auto-escaping template technologies, browser-based
defenses such as Content Security Policy, and Javascript sandboxes such
as the Google CAJA project and JSReg.

Presenter Bio: Jim Manico is the VP of Security Architecture for
WhiteHat Security, a web security firm. Jim is a participant and project
manager of the OWASP Developer Cheatsheet series. He is also the
producer and host of the OWASP Podcast Series.

[Media:OWASP_April_2012.pdf](Media:OWASP_April_2012.pdf "wikilink")

*Talk 2:Holiday Downtime, It wasn't just you\!*

During the holiday season, two researchers in Germany introduced the
world to a severe denials of service attack during the 28th Chaos
Computer Congress in Berlin on December 28, 2011. This vulnerability
affects most web application platforms including ASP.NET, Java, and PHP
to name a few. In this presentation, Chris will discuss and demo a
working proof of concept of this DoS attack.

Presenter Bio: Christopher Zavala is a native of South Florida and is
currently a Web App Pen Tester for Citigroup. A graduate of FIU and as
an employee from small business’ to Large corporations; he is very
diverse in both his technical and business mindset.

Facility Location: NOVA SOUTHEASTERN UNIVERSITY Carl DeSantis Building,
Main Davie Campus Room 1124 3301 College Ave Fort Lauderdale, FL
33314-7796

FREE CPE CREDITS\! Did you know you earn 2 CPE credits for attending an
OWASP Meeting? It's true\! Join us to feed your certs.

**Tuesday. November 29, 2011 - 6:00pm - South Florida OWASP Meeting -
Introduction to Mobile Challenges and Procedures**

Join us for our November meeting where Brent Williams and Michael
Patterson will present on Introduction to Mobile Challenges and
Procedures: Reversing Android, iOS, Blackberry.

Presenter Bio:

Brent Williams is currently CTO at Equifax/Anakam Identity. In the past
he has worked in business development for Homeland Security at SRA
International. He obtained his degree from John Hopkins University.

Michael Patterson is the Founder of InAuth, Inc, a company that offers
next generation solutions for mobile device security. He is the author
of 18 provisional patents related to mobile authentication and fraud
detection. He founded SMobile, Inc. which sold to Juniper in 2010.

[Media:OWASP_mobile_Nov_2011.pdf](Media:OWASP_mobile_Nov_2011.pdf "wikilink")

Facility Location: NOVA SOUTHEASTERN UNIVERSITY Carl DeSantis Building,
Main Davie Campus Room 1124 3301 College Ave Fort Lauderdale, FL
33314-7796 Phone: 800-541-NOVA (6682)

FREE CPE CREDITS\! Did you know you earn 2 CPE credits for attending an
OWASP Meeting? It's true\! Join us to feed your certs.

**Wed. September 28, 2011 - 6:00pm - South Florida OWASP Meeting -
Secure Application Development**

Join us for our September meeting where Rohini Sulatycki will present on
Secure Application Development. The talk will cover the following
topics.

`*   Current Landscape`
`*   Why do security vulnerabilities  occur?`
`*   Design`
`*   Design Patterns`
`*   Threat Modeling`
`*   Development`
`*   OWASP Top 10`
`*   Testing`
`*   Penetration Testing`
`*   Configuration`
`*   Maintenance`

Presenter Bio: Rohini Sulatycki is a Senior Security Consultant within
the Application Security practice at Trustwave's SpiderLabs. SpiderLabs
is the advanced security team responsible for Penetration Testing,
Application Security, Incident Response, and Payment Application testing
for Trustwave's clients. Rohini has been involved in the Information
Technology industry for more than 15 years. Rohini specializes in
application security testing, code reviews and secure software
development conducting a large number of application tests in her
capacity at Trustwave. She has strong foundations in software
engineering, design and architecture and implementing enterprise
applications. Rohini has a background implementing and reviewing all
types of applications, from traditional client/server applications to
web applications and web services. Rohini has served as the president of
the Kansas City OWASP chapter and a member of the High Technology Crime
Investigation Association (HTCIA). She has been a technical reviewer for
several books and publications including Java Security and IEEE Security
and Privacy. She has also presented at various industry events including
Black Hat and OWASP FROC on topics such as Web application security,
Ajax security concerns and Flash application security.
[1](https://www.owasp.org/images/1/16/Secure_Application_Development.pdf)

Facility Location: NOVA SOUTHEASTERN UNIVERSITY Carl DeSantis Building,
Main Davie Campus Room 1124 3301 College Ave Fort Lauderdale, FL
33314-7796 Phone: 800-541-NOVA (6682)

***Wed. Aug 31, 2011 - 6:00pm - South Florida OWASP Meeting - Blackhat/
Defcon Recap - All you wanted to know and everything you missed***

Join us for our August meeting where we will be discussing the latest
news, tools and other hacking techniques displayed at Blackhat/ Defcon
conferences this year.

If you were unable to make the cons this year, this is a good way to
catch up on the most important talks. If you had trouble getting in to a
talk or were still nursing that hangover and missed your favorite
presentation, this will catch you up. This will also be a good time to
reminisce about the Defcon Open CTF and the cons in general.

Presenter Bio:

Claudio Lacayo is a local security researcher currently involved in the
financial industry.

Facility Location:
NOVA SOUTHEASTERN UNIVERSITY
Carl DeSantis Building, Main Davie Campus
Room 1048-1049
3301 College Ave Fort Lauderdale, FL 33314-7796
Phone: 800-541-NOVA (6682)
6pm
FREE CPE CREDITS\! Did you know you earn 2 CPE credits for attending an
OWASP Meeting? It's true\! Join us to feed your certs.

***Wed. July 27, 2011 - 6:00pm - South Florida OWASP Meeting - Double
Feature - SQLMap 0.9 Overview and Analysis + Automated Scanning and
Differential Reporting***

Join us for our July meeting where we will be discussing the latest
release of one of the most formidable web application attack tools
currently available: SQLMap0.9

The meeting will discuss some basic methods of SQL injection
vulnerability identification (both error based and blind), and will go
over ways to use the SQLMap0.9 tool to test your web application.
Futhermore, we will discuss some of the more advanced features of SQLMap
that were unavailable in previous releases.

Presenter Bio: Alexander Heid - is a local security researcher and board
member of Hackmiami and co-chair of South Florida OWASP. Heid is also
employed within the financial industry as a web application
vulnerability analyst.

Automated Scanning and Differential Reporting

Companies are struggling with scaling source code scanning, there are
not enough security experts to fulfill the current demand. Developers
are being overwhelmed with the quantity and quality of issues reported
from misconfigured scanning tools. This session will present an
automated source code scanning deployment methodology that allows
organizations to automatically reduce false positives during scanning
and deliver reports that represent the high confidence security risk of
the latest software changes.

What will your audience walk away with? 1) Establishment of security
policies is key to reducing false positives 2) Automated scanning is
easy to configure and requires limited maintenance 3) Differential
reporting reduces developer overload by highlighting the risk of recent
change

Presenter Bio:

Bruce Mayhew is a Security Solutions Architect at IBM. Bruce has over 20
years of software development experience with the last 13 years focused
on application security. At IBM, he is frequently a project lead for
application security assessments. Bruce has created an application
security practice and training curriculum for large financial
institutions and has been a Web Application Security Course instructor
for the SANS Institute. Bruce is on the SANS Council for Secure Java
Programming and is an author of the SANS GSSP Secure Programming
Assessment. He is the primary author of WebGoat and was instrumental in
bringing WebGoat to OWASP and currently leads the OWASP WebGoat project.
A frequent speaker on application security topics, Bruce has presented
at OWASP, NASA, ISSA, NSA, Innovate and many commercial and financial
institutions.

Facility Location:
NOVA SOUTHEASTERN UNIVERSITY
Carl DeSantis Building, Main Davie Campus
Room 1124
3301 College Ave Fort Lauderdale, FL 33314-7796
Phone: 800-541-NOVA (6682)
6pm
FREE CPE CREDITS\! Did you know you earn 2 CPE credits for attending an
OWASP Meeting? It's true\! Join us to feed your certs.

**Thurs. March 17, 2011 - 3:30pm - South Florida OWASP Meeting + ISSA
Meeting**

South Florida OWASP is teaming up with South Florida ISSA to bring you a
very special St. Patricks Day meeting. There will be an after-party
sponsored by Barracuda in Boca.

We will have two great talks: Edward Bonver from Symantec will speak on
Threat Modeling followed by Grant Murphy from Barracuda presenting their
latest research: The State of Web Application Security.

This meeting will be held from 3:30pm - 5:30pm at NCCI Holdings, Inc in
Boca Raton and the party, sponsored by Barracuda, will be at the
Dubliner.

NCCI Holdings 901 Peninsula Corporate Cir Boca Raton, FL 33487-1362

Dubliner 435 Plaza Real Boca Raton, FL

Talk: Threat Modeling Threat Modeling is one of the most important
security activities that a development/QA team needs to perform as part
of a Security Development Lifecycle. This activity allows the team to
build a complete security profile of the system being built. Threat
Modeling is not always easy to get going for a team that has little or
no security experience. In this presentation we'll take a look at why
Threat Modeling is so important; we'll explore the process behind it,
and how the process is being implemented and followed across Symantec.

Bio: Edward Bonver - Software Engineer, Symantec Edward Bonver is a
principal software engineer on the product security team under the
Office of the CTO at Symantec Corporation. In this capacity, Edward is
responsible for working with software developers and quality assurance
(QA) professionals across Symantec to continuously enhance the company's
software security practices through the adoption of methodologies,
procedures and tools for secure coding and security testing. Within
Symantec, Edward teaches secure coding and security testing classes for
Symantec engineers, and also leads the company's QA Security Task Force,
which he founded. Prior to joining Symantec, Edward held software
engineering and QA roles at Digital Equipment Corporation, Nbase and
Zuma Networks. Edward is a Certified Information Systems Security
Professional (CISSP) and a Certified Secure Software Lifecycle
Professional (CSSLP). He holds a master's degree in computer science
from California State University, Northridge, and a bachelor's degree in
computer science from Rochester Institute of Technology. Edward is a
Ph.D. student at NOVA Southeastern University.

Talk: The State of Web Application Security It's no secret that more and
more commerce is being conducted via Web applications. Web-based
applications are convenient for consumers and allow vendors to get
applications online quickly to reach those consumers. This trend has
also created a variety of privacy and security concerns that affect all
companies transacting business over the Web. Recently, Barracuda
networks co-sponsored a research study conducted by the Ponemon
Institute titled "The State of Web Application Security" that revealed
that these concerns are keenly felt by web application administrators.
However, a major disconnect exists as appropriate countermeasures to
these threats are either ineffective or completely non-existent. Join us
for an informative seminar to learn:

More about our revealing research,

Why Web applications are under attack,

What hackers are doing to compromise Web applications

How to mitigate this risk.

Bio: Grant Murphy, Vice President of Enterprise Solutions, Barracuda
Networks Grant Murphy is Vice President of Enterprise Solutions managing
worldwide sales for the Barracuda Web Application Firewall and the Web
Filtering products at Barracuda Networks. Murphy brings significant
experience in the Web proxy/cache market and how these technologies can
be used to secure employee's Internet Access as well as the sites they
are accessing. He has been a frequent speaker at many security industry
events worldwide over the past four years. Prior to joining Barracuda,
he was responsible for sales of McAfee's Web and Email filtering
products. Murphy earned his CISSP accreditation in March of 2006.

Pre-Registration Seating is limited so you must pre-register for the
event. You can pre-register for the event
[here](http://r20.rs6.net/tn.jsp?llr=5pifqcdab&et=1104694146334&s=85&e=001VIQEUNPGuuVH5IgIeX-NDCqnSqgNIVLxHKW2T_pBeSy0gsaS2xHMxYFCg0BYbbVVK3_EI3fyj3uPqCqZgd7iDJyuMOStQ2gWJGSxog__f50iFmo4ixDzU0zELPUCCltojb2CEtw7QQWl6Jm4l_pBf2Go37heS6e3sm31C_MUyqwUWXRUMv1mnDHqnoSJ2MXryuwe5SqlOZ9vePG6LsQLoDApySLr9Xpm8NhJhVNd22KyDh_VKzqsMBjlYepwZzSv).

FREE CPE CREDITS\! Did you know you earn 2 CPE credits for attending an
ISSA Meeting? If you are a CISSP and you provide your CISSP number at
registration, we will submit your CPE credits automatically for you.

**Wed. February 23, 2011 - 6pm - South Florida OWASP Meeting**

Facility Location:
NOVA SOUTHEASTERN UNIVERSITY
Carl DeSantis Building, Main Davie Campus
Room 1124
3301 College Ave Fort Lauderdale, FL 33314-7796
Phone: 800-541-NOVA (6682)
6pm

Building a Web Application Attack Framework
Miguel Turner will be discussing the challenges involved in building a
tool to support vulnerability analysts with the automated detection and
exploitation of Web application vulnerabilities.
Bio:
Bio: Miguel Turner currently works for Immunity as a developer, and has
worked internationally on a number of endeavors. His current focus and
research is on automatic exploitation of Web applications.

**Wed. December 1, 2010 - 6pm - South Florida OWASP Meeting**

Facility Location:
NOVA SOUTHEASTERN UNIVERSITY
Carl DeSantis Building, Main Davie Campus
Room 3032/3034
3301 College Ave Fort Lauderdale, FL 33314-7796
Phone: 800-541-NOVA (6682)
6pm

Attacking web applications via XSS with BEeF and Metasploit
Join us as Rod Soto presents a method of gaining administrative access
to a domain controller through the exploitation of a DOM XSS
vulnerability in a web application. The talk serves to demonstrate the
risks that are posed through client side exploitation.
Bio:
Rod Soto is a vulnerability analyst and local security researcher. He is
also a consultant to businesses around the globe regarding enterprise
security matters.

**Wed. October 6, 2010 - 6pm - South Florida OWASP Meeting**

Facility Location:
NOVA SOUTHEASTERN UNIVERSITY
Carl DeSantis Building, Main Davie Campus
Room 1124
3301 College Ave Fort Lauderdale, FL 33314-7796
Phone: 800-541-NOVA (6682)
6pm

Abstract: Improving application security with ESAPI Swingset
The primary aim of the OWASP Top 10 is to educate developers, designers,
architects and organisations about the consequences of the most
important web application security weaknesses. ESAPI is Enterprise
security API's for remediation of OWASP Top 10 vulnerabilities. The
ESAPI libraries are designed to make it easier for programmers to
retrofit security into existing applications.
The ESAPI Swingset is a web application which demonstrates common
security vulnerabilities and asks users to secure the application
against these vulnerabilities using the ESAPI libraries. The application
is intended for Java Developers. The goal of the application is to teach
developers about the functionality of the ESAPI libraries and give users
a practical understanding of how it can be used to protect web
applications against common security vulnerabilities.
Bio:
Fabio is currently working as an Information Security Specialist at AIB
Bank (Dublin, Ireland). His tasks include performing risk analysis,
assessing the security of web applications developed internally or
purchased from third parties, define policies and standards on secure
coding, as well as providing training on web application security to
developers, auditors, executives and security professionals.
Prior to joining AIB, he worked as a Security Engineer at Symantec
Security Response European Headquarters analyzing malicious code,
blended threats, security risks and vulnerabilities in various
applications. Before moving to Ireland, he worked in the development of
different training programs and activities with emphasis on secure
software development in his native Argentina. \<br 2 2010 As a member of
the OWASP organization, Fabio is part Global Education Committee whose
mission to provide training and educational services businesses,
governments institutions on application security, he coordinates
international conferences around this topic, since early has been
appointed chairman Chapter in Ireland. graduate Computer Engineering
from Universidad Católica Argentina granted CISSP by (ISC) back 2006.
**Wed. August 25, - 6pm South Florida Meeting** Facility Location:
NOVA SOUTHEASTERN UNIVERSITY
Carl DeSantis Building, Main Davie Campus
Room 1124
3301 College Ave Fort Lauderdale, FL 33314-7796
Phone: 800-541-NOVA (6682)
6pm

This meeting's presentation is entitled "PCI Fundamentals" The talk will
discuss the PCI compliance process, requirements, and implementations
for everything from networks to web applications. The talk will be
presented by Ivan Moskowitz.

Presenter Bios:

Ivan Moskowitz is a local security researcher and compliance auditor at
a Fortune 100 firm.

**Wed. July 28, 2010 - 6pm - South Florida OWASP Meeting**

Facility Location:
NOVA SOUTHEASTERN UNIVERSITY
Carl DeSantis Building, Main Davie Campus
Room 1124
3301 College Ave Fort Lauderdale, FL 33314-7796
Phone: 800-541-NOVA (6682)
6pm

This meeting's presentation is entitled "Citrix Vulnerabilities." The
talk will discuss the architecture of a Citrix server, as well as the
vulnerabilities that exist within various configuration settings. The
talk will be presented by Adam Cazzolla and Dickson Kwong.

Presenter Bios:

Adam Cazzolla and Dickson Kwong are local security researchers and web
application vulnerability analysts at a Fortune 20 firm.

**Wed. June 23, 2010 - 6pm - South Florida OWASP Meeting**

Facility Location:
NOVA SOUTHEASTERN UNIVERSITY
Carl DeSantis Building, Main Davie Campus
Room 1124
3301 College Ave Fort Lauderdale, FL 33314-7796
Phone: 800-541-NOVA (6682)
6pm

This meeting's presentation is "Defensive Web Application Development"
and "Modern Digital Crime Tools and Techniques"

This next OWASP meeting will feature two talks that are scheduled to be
presented at the upcoming 2600 Hackers On Planet Earth conference
(http://www.hope.net) in New York City. We will be featuring a
sneak-peek preview of these talks on June 23, 2010 at the Nova campus.

"Defensive Web Application Development" by Pete Greko and Fabian
Rothschild

This talk will examine various methods of code obfuscation for web
application development. The goal is to make the tracking of covertly
logged data too difficult for the average attacker to bother with.

"Modern Digital Crime Tools and Techniques" by Alexander Heid

This talk will examine the latest developments of tools and trends
within the world of digital crimes. The talk will go over updates,
developments, and plugins of new Zeus trojan variants, and will also
examine new versions of various exploit kits used to distruibute
malicious payloads. An overview of the digital crime lifecycle will be
discussed as well.

Presenter Bios:
Pete Greko - is a local security researcher and board member of
HackMiami. Greko is employed within the financial industry as a web
application vulnerability analyst.

Alexander Heid - is a local security researcher and board member of
Hackmiami and co-chair of South Florida OWASP. Heid is also employed
within the financial industry as a web application vulnerability
analyst.

Fabian Rothschild - is a local security researcher and member of
HackMiami. Rothschild is employed as an security consultant for various
clients around South Florida.



**Wed. May 26, 2010 - 6pm - South Florida OWASP Meeting**

Facility Location:
NOVA SOUTHEASTERN UNIVERSITY
Carl DeSantis Building, Main Davie Campus
Room 3032/3034 located on the 3rd floor, Eastside of the Carl DeSantis
Building
3301 College Ave Fort Lauderdale, FL 33314-7796
Phone: 800-541-NOVA (6682)
6pm

This meeting's presentation is "PCI Compliance Fundamentals" by Georgios
Mortakis of Enterprise Risk Management, Inc.

The presentation will go over application development to ensure PCI
compliance, specifically developing applications to defeat the use of
magnetic stripe skimmers. There will be live demonstrations taking place
with a magnetic stripe skimmer showing ways to defeat the interception
of important data.

Presenter Bio:

Georgios Mortakis (CISSP, CISA, QSA) is a Director of Information
Systems Security with Enterprise Risk Management, Inc. Enterprise Risk
Management, Inc, found in Miami FL in 1998, offers a wide variety of
information security and information systems audit services to local,
national (Fortune 500) and international businesses.
[Media:South_Florida_OWASP_May_2010_Card_Skimming_Demo.pdf](Media:South_Florida_OWASP_May_2010_Card_Skimming_Demo.pdf "wikilink")
**Wed. April 28th, 2010 - 6pm - South Florida OWASP Meeting**

Facility Location:
NOVA SOUTHEASTERN UNIVERSITY
Carl DeSantis Building, Main Davie Campus
Room 3049/3051 located on the 3rd floor, Eastside of the Carl DeSantis
Building
3301 College Ave Fort Lauderdale, FL 33314-7796
Phone: 800-541-NOVA (6682)
6pm

This meeting's presentation is "Cisco ACE Web Application Firewall Use
Cases" by Rob Kinnion and Vikas Deolaliker.

The presentation will give a overview of the WAF market and the real
world deployments and customer concerns which will help OWASP evolve the
WAF as a product category. This event will also be available during a
live WebEx feed. Details are below.


Presenter Bios:

Rob Kinnon has been a Systems Engineer for 10-years at Cisco. He has
held the coveted CCIE many years before most people even heard of it. He
is one of the most highly respected and formidable Cisco Security
engineers within the region. Rob specializes in Cisco Security
Architecture in NAC, Intrusion Prevention, Security Monitoring, and Log
Correlation just to name a few. Rob has helped countless organizations
protect and secure their networks.

Vikas Deolaliker is a Product Manager in DCASBU at Cisco for Cisco WAF.
He has helped define and product manage a broad spectrum of products for
the datacenter including: SOA Appliances, SAN Director Class Switches,
Grid Computing Middleware, Java Enterprise Software.

WebEx Live Session Information:

Meeting Number: 201 076 756

Meeting Password: Cisco

To start this meeting

1\. Go to <https://cisco.webex.com/cisco/j.php?S=201076756>

2\. Log in to your account.

3\. Click "Start Now".

4\. Follow the instructions that appear on your screen.

ALERT:Toll-Free Dial Restrictions for (408) and (919) Area Codes

The affected toll free numbers are: (866) 432-9903 for the San
Jose/Milpitas area and (866) 349-3520 for the RTP area.

Please dial the local access number for your area from the list below:

\- San Jose/Milpitas (408) area: 525-6800 - RTP (919) area: 392-3330

To join the teleconference only

1\. Dial into Cisco WebEx (view all Global Access Numbers at

<http://cisco.com/en/US/about/doing_business/conferencing/index.html>

2\. Follow the prompts to enter the Meeting Number (listed above) or
Access Code followed by the \# sign.

San Jose, CA: +1.408.525.6800 RTP: +1.919.392.3330

US/Canada: +1.866.432.9903 United Kingdom: +44.20.8824.0117

India: +91.80.4350.1111 Germany: +49.619.6773.9002

Japan: +81.3.5763.9394 China: +86.10.8515.5666

<http://www.webex.com>

IMPORTANT NOTICE: This WebEx service includes a feature that allows
audio and any documents and other materials exchanged or viewed during
the session to be recorded. By joining this session, you automatically
consent to such recordings. If you do not consent to the recording, do
not join the session.



**Wed. March 31st, 2010 - 6pm - South Florida OWASP Meeting**

Facility Location:
NOVA SOUTHEASTERN UNIVERSITY
Carl DeSantis Building, Main Davie Campus
Knight Lecture Hall - Room 1124
3301 College Ave Fort Lauderdale, FL 33314-7796
Phone: 800-541-NOVA (6682)
6pm

This meeting's presentation is "Adon't be an Adobe victim: An overview
of how recent Adobe-related flaws affect your web application" by Josh
Stabiner.


The talk will examine the threats posed by PDF and Flash vulnerabilities
to web applications and their users, and will examine ways to mitigate
the potential threats to your organization.
Presenter Bio:
Josh Stabiner is a manager in Ernst & Young's Advanced Security Center
specializing in attack and penetration advisory services. He manages and
executes assessments of web applications, external, internal and
wireless networks, as well as physical security and social
engineering.
[Media:South_Florida_OWASP_Adobe_ASC_Demo.pdf](Media:South_Florida_OWASP_Adobe_ASC_Demo.pdf "wikilink")

**Wed. Jan 27th, 2010 - 6pm- South Florida OWASP Meeting**
Facility Location:
NOVA SOUTHEASTERN UNIVERSITY
Carl DeSantis Building, Main Davie Campus
Knight Lecture Hall, Room 1124
3301 College Ave Fort Lauderdale, FL 33314-7796
Phone: 800-541-NOVA (6682)

This meeting's presentation is "Zeus & You: Analysis of the
underground's most popular trojan" by Alexander Heid and Fabian
Rothschild.
[Media:OWASP_miami_Zeus_and_You_01-2010.pdf](Media:OWASP_miami_Zeus_and_You_01-2010.pdf "wikilink")

**Wed. Oct. 7th, 2009 6PM - South Florida OWASP Meeting**

Facility Location:
NOVA SOUTHEASTERN UNIVERSITY
Carl DeSantis Building, Main Davie Campus
2nd Floor - Room 2071
3301 College Ave Fort Lauderdale, FL 33314-7796
Phone: 800-541-NOVA (6682)

This meeting's presentation is by Gary Bahadur and will be based on the
presentation he is giving at Hacker Halted on the topic of Supplier Risk
Management with more of a web focus.


-----

**Thu. Aug 20th, 2009 3:30PM - South Florida OWASP Meeting**

Facility Location:
NOVA SOUTHEASTERN UNIVERSITY
Carl DeSantis Building, Main Davie Campus
1st Floor - Room 1048/1049
3301 College Ave Fort Lauderdale, FL 33314-7796
Phone: 800-541-NOVA (6682)

This meeting's presentation is "Security in .NET Applications &
Integrating Security in the Software Development Lifecycle" by Jon Arce.
This is a joint meeting that has been arranged graciously by the local
ISSA chapter (www.sfissa.org).
[Media:OWASP_miami_Integrating_Security_in_App_Dev_v1_1-2009_08.pptx](Media:OWASP_miami_Integrating_Security_in_App_Dev_v1_1-2009_08.pptx "wikilink")
[Media:OWASP_miami_App_Security_Using_dotNET_Framework_v1_0-2009_08.pptx](Media:OWASP_miami_App_Security_Using_dotNET_Framework_v1_0-2009_08.pptx "wikilink")


-----

**Tue. June 30th, 2009 6:00PM - South Florida OWASP Meeting**

Facility Location:
Mission Critical Systems, Inc.
1347 East Sample Road, Suite 3
Pompano Beach, Fl 33064
Phone: (954) 788-7110

This meeting's presentation is "Risk Rating Models for Vulnerabilities"
by Rishikesh Pande.
[Media:OWASP_miami_Risk_Modeling_v2-2009_06.pdf](Media:OWASP_miami_Risk_Modeling_v2-2009_06.pdf "wikilink")


-----

**Fri. April 3rd, 2009 6:00PM - South Florida OWASP Meeting**

Facility Location:
Immunity, Inc.
1247 Alton Road
Miami Beach, FL 33139
Phone: (212) 534-0857

This meeting's presentation is "Memory Corruption and Buffer Overflows"
by Dave Aitel. Dave presented on this topic during the OWASP NYC AppSec
2008 Conference. The presentation will also include some web application
content based on Immunity's recent project experiences.
[Media:OWASP_miami_Corruption-2009_04.pdf](Media:OWASP_miami_Corruption-2009_04.pdf "wikilink")


-----

**Wed. February 4th, 2009 5:00PM - South Florida OWASP Meeting**

Facility Location:
Mission Critical Systems, Inc.
1347 East Sample Road, Suite 3
Pompano Beach, Fl 33064
Phone: (954) 788-7110

This meeting's presentation is "An Architect's view of Application
Security" by Rick Carlin.
[Media:OWASP_miami_Architect%E2%80%99s_View_of_Application_Security-2009_02.ppt](Media:OWASP_miami_Architect’s_View_of_Application_Security-2009_02.ppt "wikilink")


-----

**Wed. December 3rd, 2008 5:00PM - South Florida OWASP Meeting**

Facility Location:
Mission Critical Systems, Inc.
1347 East Sample Road, Suite 3
Pompano Beach, Fl 33064
Phone: (954) 788-7110

This meeting's presentation is a live web hacking demo by Dan Carcone.


[Category:OWASP Chapter](Category:OWASP_Chapter "wikilink")
[Category:United States](Category:United_States "wikilink")
[Category:Florida](Category:Florida "wikilink")