OWASP SPEAKER AGREEMENT V2.0 - OWASP Presentation Templates:
[2012](Media:OWASP_Presentation_Template.zip "wikilink")
[2013](Media:PPT_2013_Toolbox.zip "wikilink")

# General Advice for a Successful Talk

OWASP holds highly a neutral and unbiased approach to security that is
free from undue vendor influence. Here are a few specific tips to
maximize the value of your talk with the OWASP audience

  - Please be sure that your talk is objective, stresses open source
    approaches, and avoids references to any commercial offerings of
    your company.
  - Feel free to introduce yourself and your current company on the bio
    slide, but avoid references to your company throughout the
    presentation
  - Please either use a blank presentation template or the OWASP
    template
    ![<File:OWASP_Presentation_Template.zip>](OWASP_Presentation_Template.zip
    "File:OWASP_Presentation_Template.zip") or
    ![<File:PPT_2013_Toolbox.zip>](PPT_2013_Toolbox.zip
    "File:PPT_2013_Toolbox.zip"). Unfortunately, company slide templates
    aren't acceptable for OWASP talks.
  - That's it - OWASP'ers love good talks with new ideas and approaches
    for security\!

# Agreement

<b>SPEAKER’S RELEASE</b>

I accept the offer of the OWASP Foundation Inc., (OWASP) to participate
as a speaker and subject matter expert subject to the terms and
conditions set forth herein. As a speaker, I will receive admission to
the event and no other remuneration. I will only receive one pass, and
this pass is non-transferable.

I understand that the views and opinions expressed at the conference
will be mine and not those of OWASP. I agree to indemnify and hold
harmless OWASP against any claims, losses, expenses or damages that may
be incurred by OWASP as a result of my presentation. In particular, I
agree that the use of any materials prepared by me will not expose OWASP
to liability for breach of confidence for infringement of copyright or
similar liability.

In the unavoidable situation that I am unable to fulfill my commitment
to speak, I will promptly notify the primary point of contact of the
event via telephone/email so that OWASP may find an alternate speaker
for my session. If I violate the terms of this agreement or fail to meet
any established deadlines, OWASP reserves the right to replace me as a
speaker with another speaker from my company or organization or from
another company or organization.

<b>CONTENT</b>

Speakers are encouraged to include their contact information when
introducing themselves, but may NOT include their logo on any visual and
handout materials. Speakers are to avoid any appearance of commercialism
in their session and presentations are to be of a technical or solutions
emphasis. Further, I understand that the program tracks of the
conference/event/chapter are an educational event, <u>not a sales or
marketing platform</u>. I agree that my presentation(s) will be an
objective review of the topic on which I am presenting, and will not
contain any content that is a sales or promotional pitch for any
specific product(s) or company(ies). My materials will also be
reflective of the current status of the topic(s) I am addressing.

I agree that the information contained in my presentation(s) or related
presentation materials (a) will be factual and not misleading, (b) will
not violate any obligation of confidentiality that I (or my company or
organization) has with any third party, (c) will not violate the
intellectual property of any third party and (d) will not defame any
third party.

In addition, I agree that OWASP is not an appropriate forum for
disclosing vulnerabilities. I understand that presentations can discuss
known vulnerabilities, types of vulnerabilities, new malicious uses of
known vulnerabilities, and new vulnerabilities that span multiple
products and standards. However, I will not discuss vulnerabilities in
specific products. I agree to dedicate a substantial portion of my
presentation to solutions for any issues raised.

<b>COPYRIGHT PERMISSION</b>

If my session includes a presentation, I will use the Conference
Template [OWASP Presentation
Template](Media:OWASP_Presentation_Template.zip "wikilink") or [2013
version](Media:PPT_2013_Toolbox.zip "wikilink"). I will submit to the
OWASP Event Leader my presentation(s) in one of the previous formats no
later than 30 days prior to the conference. Should the presentation
change after it has been submitted, I agree to notify the OWASP Event
Leader that the presentation has changed and I will submit the changed
presentation as soon as feasible and at least 24 hours prior to my
scheduled session(s).

I understand that OWASP may record (audio and/or video) the conference
proceedings, and, that my presentation could be included in any
reproduction of the conference materials. I hereby authorize the OWASP
Foundation to capture my presentation on audio/visual format or a
combination thereof for presentation by OWASP Conference Organizers.
Accordingly, I grant the OWASP Foundation the right to: Reproduce and
distribute the handout materials in any format including paper and
electronic formats to any audience. Distribute written materials to
participants of the OWASP Conferences.

<b>I UNDERSTAND THE FOLLOWING:</b>

I will not receive any compensation for speaking at any OWASP
Event/Conference. This includes any travel expenses such as airfare,
housing, or any other daily expenses incurred while attending any OWASP
Conference. I may use the handout materials, presentation, visual aids
and any other material prepared by me for the above-mentioned
presentation in any manner I desire, including publication. Papers and
illustrations will not be returned.

The governing language of this Agreement, the Service, the Application
and the Documentation is English. Les parties aux présentes confirment
leur volonté que ce contrat de même que tous les documents y compris
tout avis qui s’y rattachent soient rédigés en langue anglaise.
(translation: “The parties confirm that this Agreement and all related
documentation is and will be in the English language”).

Any claim, controversy or dispute arising out of or relating to this
Agreement shall be settled by final and binding arbitration to be
conducted by an arbitration tribunal in Columbia, Maryland, U.S.A., in
English, in accordance with the commercial arbitration rules of the
American Arbitration Association (“AAA”) and pursuant to this section.
The arbitration shall be conducted by three (3) arbitrators, one to be
appointed by OWASP, one to be appointed by you and a third being
nominated by the two arbitrators so selected or, if they cannot agree on
a third arbitrator within the time specified in the AAA commercial
arbitration rules, by the AAA; provided, however, that all arbitrators
appointed pursuant to this provision shall be both: (i) a licensed
attorney or former judge; and (ii) knowledgeable about, and experienced
in, the software and/or Internet industry. The decision of the
arbitrators shall be binding upon the parties hereto, and the expense of
the arbitration (including without limitation the award of attorneys’
fees to the prevailing party) shall be paid as the arbitrators
determine. The decision of the arbitrators shall be executory, and
judgment thereon may be entered by any court of competent jurisdiction.
Notwithstanding anything contained in this provision to the contrary.

I AM CONSENTING TO BE BOUND BY THE TERMS AND CONDITIONS CONTAINED IN
THIS AGREEMENT. IF I DO NOT AGREE TO THESE TERMS, THEN I WILL NOT BE
PERMITTED TO SPEAK AT THE OWASP EVENT, IN WHICH EVENT I WILL REPLY TO
THIS MESSAGE THAT I DO NOT AGREE TO THESE TERMS, AND I UNDERSTAND I WILL
NOT BE ABLE TO SPEAK AT THE EVENT AND WILL BE REPLACED AS A SPEAKER.

[The OWASP Foundation Inc.](http://www.owasp.org/index.php/About_OWASP)
1200-C Agora Drive, \#232 Bel Air, MD 21014