**[Back to SpoC 007 Selection
page](http://www.owasp.org/index.php/OWASP_Spring_Of_Code_2007_Selection)**

**AoC Candidate**: Eric Sheridan and Dr. Goran Trajkovski

**Project coordinator**: Dinis Cruz

**Project Progress**: 100% Complete, [Progress
Page](SpoC_007_-_The_Scholastic_Application_Security_Assessment_Project_-_Progress_Page "wikilink")

## Eric Sheridan and Dr. Goran Trajkovski - The Scholastic Application Security Assessment Project

### Abstract

One of the major goals of the Open Web Application Security Project is
to educate developers in the field of application software security.
Understanding the risks and threats associated with web application
software is pivotal in building a mature application security process.
While OWASP has made a significant impact in the professional industry,
more time and energy should be focused towards the academic community.
It is an unfortunate fact that most universities do not require a
stringent software security course for their computer science students.
Consequently, most young developers do not have the ability to assess
and mitigate the risks and threats for their own applications. It is for
this reason that we believe the Open Web Application Security Project
should fund an initiative to encourage the adaptation of application
software security methodologies in the academic course curriculum.

The Scholastic Application Security Project is intended to be the first
step towards integrating security requirements in academic course
curriculums. The primary goal of the project is to give students
hands-on experience performing application security assessments using
the tools and documentation found at <http:///www.owasp.org>. The
assessment, lead by an application security professional, will
demonstrate to students how the information and tools found at OWASP can
be used to assess and ultimately increase the overall security posture
of a web application.

This project contributes towards bridging the gap between academia and
industry, by equipping students with hands-on ready-for-the-job-market
skills in the application software securing industry.

### Participants

The Scholastic Application Security Assessment Project requires that
college level students, lead by an application security professional,
perform a security audit on an open source web application using the
tools and information available at OWASP.

  - **Application Security Professional** – Eric Sheridan [Aspect
    Security](http://www.aspectsecurity.com/)
  - **Towson University (TU) Partner** – Dr. Goran Trajkovski [Towson
    University](http://www.towson.edu/)
  - **Students** – Students of TU’s Application Software Security Course
    (COSC 458), nominated by the TU Partner
  - **Web Application** - [The Open WebMail
    Project](http://openwebmail.org/)

### OWASP Utilization

The Scholastic Application Security Assessment Project requires heavy
utilization of existing OWASP tools and utilities. Through this
requirement, the project will illustrate the fact that existing OWASP
resources can be used and heavily relied upon in a professional security
audit. The following is a list of notable OWASP resources whose use will
be documented throughout the assessment:

  - **OWASP Top Ten 2007** The security critical areas that the students
    will assess in the review
  - **OWASP Testing Guide v2** The primary resource for building
    penetration testing cases
  - **OWASP Guide** The primary resource for technical details
    pertaining to a technology and/or vulnerability
  - **OWASP WebScarabNG** The primary proxy utility used throughout the
    assessment

### The Final Report

Students are required to follow the principle of “responsible
disclosure” during the course of the security assessment. The
developers of the open source application will be notified if any
significant issues are found. Once the assessment is complete, a final
report will be delivered to the application developers and the
appropriate OWASP Spring of Code personnel. For each finding in the
report, the students will be required to describe how the tools and
information found at OWASP were used in the discovery.

### How does OWASP Benefit?

The Scholastic Application Security Assessment Project is specifically
designed to benefit the OWASP brand:

The OWASP Community…

  - will be provided a case study proving that the resources available
    at OWASP can be utilized in an academic environment, that can be
    later used in advertising the OWASP efforts to similar programs as
    the one at TU.
  - will be providing students a hands on experience in learning and
    testing for the latest web application security threats, thus
    potentially enlarging the OWASP community of contributors and
    supporters.
  - will be addressing the need to educate developers in the security
    critical areas.
  - will be seen as offering a professional level service to another
    open source project.
  - will be addressing one of the root causes of application software
    insecurity.

### Background

**Eric Sheridan**

  - Earned a Bachelor’s of Science in Computer Science from Towson
    University
  - Graduate Student in Information Security at Johns Hopkins University
  - Application Security Engineer at Aspect Security
  - Lead of the OWASP Stinger Project and the OWASP Validation Project

**Goran Trajkovski, PhD**

  - Has been teaching the Application Software Security course for the
    Computer Security undergraduate and master-level majors at TU since
    2004 (TU has been a Center of Excellence in Information Assurance,
    designated by the NSA since 2002).
  - Assistant professor of Computer and Information Sciences at Towson
    University, and Director of its Cognitive Agency and Robotics Lab
    (CARoL).
  - Has lead curricular efforts in integrating application software
    security topics throughout the Computer Science and Computer
    Information Sciences curriculum
  - 12 years of full time teaching experience in higher ed.

**[Back to SpoC 007 Selection
page](http://www.owasp.org/index.php/OWASP_Spring_Of_Code_2007_Selection)**