**[Back to SpoC 007 Selection
page](http://www.owasp.org/index.php/OWASP_Spring_Of_Code_2007_Selection)**

**AoC Candidate**: Mark Curphey

**Project coordinator**: Dinis Cruz

**Project Progress**: 50% Complete, [Progress
Page](SpoC_007_-_OWASP_Web_Security_Certification_Framework_-_Progress_Page "wikilink")

Web site owners need a widely published and consensus driven set of
criteria to design, develop, deploy and maintain secure web sites. This
criteria and claims of compliance with it need to be able to be provided
to a wide range of stakeholders including customers, regulators and
business partners.

This document is a discussion document created by Mark Curphey . It was
sponsored and produced as part of the OWASP Spring of Code, 2007 and
proposes an evaluation and certification scheme for the security of web
sites including recommendations for how the evaluation and certification
process itself could work. This work is intended to be openly published
for a reasonable period of time for public discussion, debate and
feedback. After this period the OWASP Board will work with interested
parties to determine any appropriate next steps. These may include
adoption or integration into existing standards or the creation of
something new. The evaluation and certification scheme proposed here
takes into account the motivations and needs of a variety of
stakeholders. Many people including the author have been highly critical
of the Payment Card Industry Data Security Standard (PCI DSS). The OWASP
Web Security Certification Criteria is not a proposal to replace the PCI
DSS and is not officially related in anyway shape or form. PCI DSS has
been taken into account however we have intentionally chosen not to
build upon or build around key PCI issues that we consider
ill-conceived. In short we have decided to build on solid foundations
from the ground up.

It is very important to understand that in itself this document and the
project that supports it is not an evaluation scheme or criteria, but a
proposal for what an effective one may look like. In fact the scheme has
been created in such as way as to provide a framework from which to
derive domain specific evaluation schemes from (US financial services,
UK Gov or Indian Insurance). This document itself comprises of two main
parts;

Part 1 – Implementation Considerations. This section describes key
processes and how they would work in order for the evaluation and
certification scheme to be effective. Part 2 – Evaluation Criteria. This
section describes the actual criteria being proposed. It adopts the
recommendations from Part 1. You can send your feedback directly to
mark@curphey.com or at the OWASP mailing list dedicated to this project
(https://lists.owasp.org/mailman/listinfo/owasp-webcert). We hope this
document provides value and provokes thought to all those identified in
the stakeholders section.

Kind regards, Mark Curphey and the entire OWASP Project Team.