## Overview

The OWASP LiveCD Education Project is intended to be a educational
supplement to the LabRat LiveCD. The Education Project goal is to
provide comprehensive and relevant guilds and tutorials detailing the
use of tools contained within LabRat through the use of written
tutorials and accompanying videos.

## Download

  - [OWASP - WebScarab Exploiting Input Validation
    PDF](http://www.owasp.org/images/1/1b/OWASP_-_WebScarab_%E2%80%93_Exploiting_Input_Validation.pdf)[HTML](http://www.securitydistro.com/index.php?option=com_content&task=view&id=246&Itemid=43)
    Exploiting parameters and input validation.

<!-- end list -->

  - [OWASP - LabRat Up and Running on Hard Disk
    PDF](http://www.owasp.org/images/2/23/OWASP_-_LabRat_-_Up_and_Running_on_Hard_Disk.pdf)
    [HTML](http://www.securitydistro.com/index.php?option=com_content&task=view&id=243&Itemid=43)
    Guide to installing OWASP LabRat to your hard disk.

<!-- end list -->

  - [OWASP - Running WebGoat in LabRat
    PDF](http://www.owasp.org/images/a/a1/OWASP_-_Running_WebGoat_in_LabRat.pdf)[HTML](http://www.securitydistro.com/index.php?option=com_content&task=view&id=247&Itemid=43)
    Guide to getting WebGoat up and Running in LabRat.

<!-- end list -->

  - [OWASP - Using JBroFuzzer in LabRat
    PDF](http://www.owasp.org/images/d/d8/OWASP_-_Using_JBroFuzzer_in_LabRat.pdf)[HTML](http://www.securitydistro.com/index.php?option=com_content&task=view&id=252&Itemid=43)
    Introduction to using JBroFuzzer in LabRat.

<!-- end list -->

  - [OWASP - WebGoat Introduction to XSS
    PDF](http://www.owasp.org/images/c/c8/OWASP_-_WebGoat_-_Introduction_to_XSS.pdf)
    [HTML](http://www.securitydistro.com/index.php?option=com_content&task=view&id=245&Itemid=43)
    Introduction and working examples of XSS using WebGoat in LabRat.

<!-- end list -->

  - [OWASP - Building Your Own LabRat ISO
    PDF](http://www.owasp.org/images/0/0e/OWASP_-_Building_Your_Own_LabRat_ISO.pdf)
    [HTML](http://www.securitydistro.com/index.php?option=com_content&task=view&id=253&Itemid=43)
    Guide to building your own custom LabRat ISO distribution.

<!-- end list -->

  - [Running WebGoat in LabRat - Video
    Tutorial](http://www.securitydistro.com/index.php?option=com_content&task=view&id=301&Itemid=1)

<!-- end list -->

  - [Installing LabRat to VMware - Video
    Tutorial](http://www.securitydistro.com/index.php?option=com_content&task=view&id=300&Itemid=1)

<!-- end list -->

  - [Introduction to Cross Site Scripting using WebGoat - Video
    Tutorial](http://www.securitydistro.com/index.php?option=com_content&task=view&id=302&Itemid=1)

## Project Sponsor

The OWASP LiveCD Education Project sponsor:

[<http://www.owasp.org/images/8/80/SecurityDistro_Mini.JPG>](http://www.securitydistro.com)

## Feedback and Participation

It is our hope that the OWASP LiveCD Education Project will be of
valuable contribution to LabRat and a important source of educational
resources for the security community. Please contribute to the project
by volunteering to write additional material, sending your comments,
questions, and suggestions to owasp@owasp.org.

## Original Project Brief

#### Executive Summary

I am proposing a new project that will educate current OWASP LiveCD
users and assist in generating more LiveCD users. The education will be
conducted by creating documentation and media using popular tutorial
techniques such as Challenges, text tutorials, and video tutorials. The
tutorials will help guide all types of users through using the OWASP
LiveCD and its tools. After the completion of this project we propose
that all of the media be added to the LiveCD so that users have a single
all encompassing package to expand their knowledge of application
security. This project will effectively bring together documentation for
many OWASP projects into one deliverable that can be used at
conferences, trade shows, and by educators. The key to promoting a live
security distribution is helping the community learn to love every
aspect of it. Objective

The objective is to produce multiple quality instructor led video
tutorials and text tutorials that educate users on using the LiveCD and
tools within. This will also include in assisting to make sure that the
LiveCD is not only an array of tools but a powerful medium for
education.

#### Deliverables

  - 5 Full screen video tutorials on using the LiveCD and the OWASP
    tools on it.
  - 5 Text tutorials using the LiveCD and the OWASP tools on it.
  - 3 Guided challenge scenarios that help a user learn more about the
    LiveCD.
  - A Morphix module with all educational data included to be added to
    the LiveCD.

Each deliverable will be OWASP branded so that any distribution ( With
OWASP approval )of the material will help bring in new OWASP users.