**[Back to SpoC 007 Selection
page](http://www.owasp.org/index.php/OWASP_Spring_Of_Code_2007_Selection)**

**AoC Candidate**: Erwin Geirnaert

**Project coordinator**: Jeff Williams

**Project Progress**: 100% Complete, [Progress
Page](SpoC_007_-_OWASP_WebGoat_Solutions_Guide_-_Progress_Page "wikilink")

## Erwin Geirnaert - OWASP WebGoat Solutions Guide

### Executive Summary

WebGoat is used by a lot of people to learn about web application
security and the different vulnerabilities. But it takes a lot of time
to grasp how the tools like WebScarab work and how to use them
effectively in WebGoat. I propose to create a walkthrough of the lessons
in WebGoat so that people can learn from the solutions, without spoiling
the fun.

### Objectives and Deliverables

The WebGoat Solutions Guide is a document that can be bundled with
WebGoat. Each lesson contains a detailed solution with screenshots and
tools. I created a PDF with the solution for WebGoat 4.0 but this is too
big to load (15 MB) and is not very practical.

After a discussion with Bruce about this, we think that the solutions
should be made like the existing Lessons Plan so it is easier to
maintain and update when a lesson changes. This means that there will be
documentation folder and an individual solution for each lesson.

### Why I should be sponsored for the project

I have more then 10 years experience in Java and J2EE and the last 6
years I have tested and broke a lot of web applications. I gave also
some very successful J2EE security courses and web security courses. I
spoke at different conferences about application security in Europe. And
I am responsible for the security track at Javapolis, one of the biggest
Jave conferences in Europe. I am the co-founder of ZION SECURITY where
we do security testing, code review, design reviews, training,... I'm
also member of the OWASP Belgium board that started in March 2007.

**[Back to SpoC 007 Selection
page](http://www.owasp.org/index.php/OWASP_Spring_Of_Code_2007_Selection)**