**[Back to SpoC 007 Selection
page](http://www.owasp.org/index.php/OWASP_Spring_Of_Code_2007_Selection)**

**SpoC Candidate**: Sebastien Deleersnyder

**Project coordinator**: Dinis Cruz

**Project Progress**: 100 % Complete, [Progress
Page](https://www.owasp.org/index.php/Category:OWASP_Education_Project)

## Sebastien Deleersnyder - OWASP Education Project

### Executive Summary

This Education project aims to provide in building blocks of web
application security information. These modules can be combined together
in education tracks targeting different audiences.

Web Application Security Education and Awareness is needed throughout
the entire organization, each area and level of organizations have
specific needs and requirements regarding education. A manager needs
other information than a security professional or developer. Novices to
the profession require other training than people with several years of
experience.

### Objectives and Deliverables

Currently the project goals are to create Educational Tracks:

  - Complete the consolidation page of OWASP presentations performed in
    the past
  - A "Web Application Security Primer" Track for beginners (4 hours)
  - A "What developers should know on Web Application Security" Track
    for developers (4 hours)

### Why I should be sponsored for the project

I started the successful Belgian Chapter 3 years ago and have actively
contributed to OWASP since then. I also co-organized the European
conference last year in Belgium.

This is the first separate project that I started, originating from a
local demand to set up educational tracks for people that are new to Web
Application Security. There are literally hundreds of presentations and
an enormous amount of information on the OWASP web site. The goal of
this project is to restructure pieces of that information in reusable
modules that can be combined in educational tracks. It is my believe
that awareness is an important cornerstone of building secure web
applications, and this project will actively support that.

# SpoC 007 Goal Tasks and Progress

The SpoC goal is to finish Sub Goals 1, 2 and 3 and start with Sub Goal
4.

Current Progress is:

  - Sub Goal 1: Create overview of OWASP presentations (100 %)
  - Sub Goal 2: Design agenda 2 Tracks (100 %)
  - Sub Goal 3: Create Modules (100 %)
  - Sub Goal 4: Track try-outs (20 % - try-outs to be performed during
    the coming months)

More details are available in the project
[roadmap](http://www.owasp.org/index.php/OWASP_Education_Project_Roadmap).

**[Back to SpoC 007 Selection
page](http://www.owasp.org/index.php/OWASP_Spring_Of_Code_2007_Selection)**

[Category:OWASP Education
Project](Category:OWASP_Education_Project "wikilink")