**[Back to SpoC 007 Selection
page](http://www.owasp.org/index.php/OWASP_Spring_Of_Code_2007_Selection)**

**AoC Candidate**: Zalivin Denis

**Project coordinator**: Dinis Silva

**Project Progress**: 100% Complete, [Progress
Page](SpoC_007_-_Python_Tainted_Mode_-_Progress_Page "wikilink")

## Denis – Python Tainted Mode

### Executive Summary

I am graduate student of Moscow State University, department of
Computational Mathematics and Cybernetics. My graduate work is dedicated
to web-application security. The goal of my graduate work is to combine
dynamic code analysis with penetration testing to provide more precise
analysis. This work will help to find security vulnerabilities in
web-applications. I successfully presented parts of my work at
university conferences.

### My Project

The goal of my project is to create analog of Perl’s Taint Mode for
Python programming language. Taint mode is successfully used in Perl,
PHP, and Ruby to find input validation vulnerabilities in
web-applications
([PHPRevent](http://dependability.cs.virginia.edu/info/PHPrevent)).
Unfortunately there is no implementation of Taint Mode for Python
language despite of wide spread of Python-based web-applications. Taint
Mode for Python is highly claimed. I plan to modify Python interpreter
and add Taint label propagation. Then I’ll add three configuration
lists:

  - List of sources. All data emanating from sources must be marked
    tainted.
  - List of critical functions, that shouldn’t receive tainted data.
  - List of sanitizing functions that untaints data.

### Why I should be sponsored for the project

I have strong mathematical & computer science background. I’m familiar
with research publications on dynamic analysis and with implementation
of taint mode in Perl and PHP (PHPrevent Project). This project is part
of my work at university. It will be made under mentoring of my
scientific advisor. This work is already practically done that’s why I’m
sure I will finish my project in time. I have strong skills in
developing projects with Python, Java, C, C++, and Assembler. Then I
plan to support, develop and enhance my project and increase its quality
with penetration testing.

**[Back to SpoC 007 Selection
page](http://www.owasp.org/index.php/OWASP_Spring_Of_Code_2007_Selection)**