**[Back to SpoC 007 Selection
page](http://www.owasp.org/index.php/OWASP_Spring_Of_Code_2007_Selection)**

**AoC Candidate**: Przemyslaw 'rezos' Skowron

**Project coordinator**: Dinis Cruz

**Project Progress**: 100% Complete (my part), [Progress
Page](SpoC_007_-_Attacks_Reference_Guide_-_Progress_Page "wikilink")

## Przemyslaw 'rezos' Skowron - Refresh [Attacks](http://www.owasp.org/index.php/Category:Attack) List

### My educational and professional background

I'm 24 year old system administrator/it security specialist with 6 years
experience. Also I'm speaker at many different meetings about IT
Security (e.g. at OWASP Poland Local Chapter in April 2007) and student
Computer Science (last year).

### Application security experience

I have 5 years experience in security audits. Mainly applications for
linux/win32 platform, but since 2 years I'm _interested_ web security.
I know many attacks vectors, what and how I can do it with security bug
and how correct (e.g. changes in code, configuration or something else).
In 2004 year I wrote my first article about bugs in code. Currently I
preparing presentation at FIRST\! OWASP Poland Local Chapter Meeting
about "secure programming in practice".

### Participation and leadership in open communities

I'm member of ISACA Poland and (I hope so\!) OWASP Poland Local Chapter.

### Objectives or ways in which you will meet the goal(s)

1.  flesh out any item complete from Attacks list
2.  complete any item which is not complete or is blank
3.  refresh Attacks list, everyday is new for new vectors attacks

### Specific activities and who will carry out these activities

Security education for newbie, medium-advanced and advanced people.
Currently mainly via presentation on ISACA Poland meetings. My protector
in this education is Shadow (sorry, I don't know in this moment if I
mind operate his (first/last)name).

### Specific deliverables and a rough project schedule so we can track progress

My goals list (3 points) is good for make progress bar. First and second
goals this is base what I want do it. Third goal is a little research
working, but this is what I WANT do it in my life :)

### Long-term vision for the project

If [Attacks](http://www.owasp.org/index.php/Category:Attack) list is
complete (9th July) in cycle on one year this work must be refresh. Very
important is update Attacks list every time when you hired about new
vector attacks. Why? Because when description about this news vector
attacks is not complete, in the next year you don't must making 3 goals,
just 2 (first and second). Perfectly when any new item at
[Attacks](http://www.owasp.org/index.php/Category:Attack) list is
develop at moment emerge or even though max. 3 months for someone wrote
it.

### Any other reasons why you and your project should be selected

Why me? Because I have experience, skills, goodwill and free time. Why
this project? Because this is strong base for education for any
programmer, administrator and many others professionals. Knowledge
attacks vectors... this is helpful for more secure not only (e-)world.

**[Back to SpoC 007 Selection
page](http://www.owasp.org/index.php/OWASP_Spring_Of_Code_2007_Selection)**