**[Back to SpoC 007 Selection
page](http://www.owasp.org/index.php/OWASP_Spring_Of_Code_2007_Selection)**

**AoC Candidate**: Josh Sweeney

**Project coordinator**: Eoin Keary

**Project Progress**: 70% Complete, [Progress
Page](SpoC_007_-_OWASP_LiveCD_Education_Project_-_Progress_Page "wikilink")

## Josh Sweeney - OWASP LiveCD Education Project

### Executive Summary

I am proposing a new project that will educate current OWASP LiveCD
users and assist in generating more LiveCD users. The education will be
conducted by creating documentation and media using popular tutorial
techniques such as Challenges, text tutorials, and video tutorials. The
tutorials will help guide all types of users through using the OWASP
LiveCD and its tools. After the completion of this project we propose
that all of the media be added to the LiveCD so that users have a single
all encompassing package to expand their knowledge of application
security. This project will effectively bring together documentation for
many OWASP projects into one deliverable that can be used at
conferences, trade shows, and by educators. The key to promoting a live
security distribution is helping the community learn to love every
aspect of it.

### Objective

The objective is to produce multiple quality instructor led video
tutorials and text tutorials that educate users on using the LiveCD and
tools within. This will also include in assisting to make sure that the
LiveCD is not only an array of tools but a powerful medium for
education.

### Derivables

  - 5 Full screen video tutorials on using the LiveCD and the OWASP
    tools on it.
  - 5 Text tutorials using the LiveCD and the OWASP tools on it.
  - 3 Guided challenge scenarios that help a user learn more about the
    LiveCD.
  - A Morphix module with all educational data included to be added to
    the LiveCD.

Each deliverable will be OWASP branded so that any distribution ( With
OWASP approval )of the material will help bring in new OWASP users.

### Why should the OWASP LiveCD Education Project be sponsored?

The LiveCD Education Project should be sponsored because it will help
educate current and new users on many OWASP tools in a popular format.
Videos are one of the hottest mediums used on the web, the possibilities
of reaching people with the deliverables from this project are endless.
This can be proven by searching YouTube for BackTrack or by going to
other popular security tutorial sites like IronGeek.

### Why I should be sponsored

`I currently operate a website ( SecurityDistro.com ) dedicated towards getting the word out and educating people on using live security distributions. Through managing this site I have developed experience in promoting, educating, and writing about live security distributions. I have a continuing interest as well as a tremendous time investment in helping live security distributions succeed.`

Before my current full time position in web application security I
worked in a managed security services environment where I managed
firewalls, IDS, IPS, and various other security devices for companies of
all sizes.

**[Back to SpoC 007 Selection
page](http://www.owasp.org/index.php/OWASP_Spring_Of_Code_2007_Selection)**