**[Back to SpoC 007 Selection
page](http://www.owasp.org/index.php/OWASP_Spring_Of_Code_2007_Selection)**

**AoC Candidate**: Joshua Perrymon

**Project coordinator**: Eoin Keary

**Project Progress**: 100% Complete, [Progress
Page](SpoC_007_-_OWASP_LiveCD_Project_-_Progress_Page "wikilink")

## Joshua Perrymon - OWASP LiveCD Project

### Executive Summary

I am proposing that I complete the second version of the OWASP LiveCD
during this period. The first version of the LiveCD is now available and
include many of the current OWASP documents and tools. I believe the
LiveCD is one of the best mediums to promote OWASP tools and
documentation. It is portable and already being used by thousands of
security proffesionals to perform application testing and training.

In the current state the CD is stable and contains a lot of tools.
However, this is just the beginning. There is a LOT of work that needs
to be completed. The entire CD experience needs to be branded using
OWASP graphics. This shouls start with the boot screen and carry all the
way through to the icons and desktop graphics. The CD should also
inlcude the wiki and ALL the tools developed for OWASP.

### Objectives and Deliverables

Update of the LiveCD:

  - Complete OWASP branding
  - Add OWASP wiki
  - Add encryption capabilities
  - Add more OWASP tools
  - Add more pen-test tools such as VOIP, RFID, BlueTooth, Wireless,
    etc.

### Why I should be sponsored for the project

I had the idea of the LiveCD about a year ago and have worked very hard
to get the first version developed. This was driven by my vision to make
all of the OWASP tools available on a portable medium. The main
difference in the OWASP liveCD vs. other live CDs is going to be the
regularity of updates. If sponsorship can be obtained the CD could be
updated on a monthly basis. Not once a year like other liveCDs. The CD
will also include specialty tools and documentation to perform VOIP,
RFID,Bluetooth, and wireless security assessments.

**[Back to SpoC 007 Selection
page](http://www.owasp.org/index.php/OWASP_Spring_Of_Code_2007_Selection)**