**[Back to SpoC 007 Selection
page](http://www.owasp.org/index.php/OWASP_Spring_Of_Code_2007_Selection)**

**AoC Candidate**: NSRAV Security R\&D

**Project coordinator**: Dinis Cruz

**Project Progress**: 100% Complete, [Progress
Page](SpoC_007_-_Attacks_Reference_Guide_-_Progress_Page "wikilink")

## Leonardo Cavallari & Matteo Nava - NSRAV Security R\&D - Attacks Reference Guide

### Introduction

Leonardo Cavallari & Matteo Nava are security specialists of [E-VAL
Technologies](http://www.evaltec.com.br) and coordinators of
[NSRAV](http://nsrav.lsi.usp.br/), a security research center located at
[University of Sao Paulo](http://www2.usp.br/portugues/index.usp)
Brazil, with more than 10 years on the information security field. The
team is formed by PhDs, MSc, graduate and post-graduate students and
security specialists with GIAC/SANS and CISSP certifications.

The team develops research and consulting activities in almost every
field of information security, focused on EHT, Web applications, IDS/IPS
and detection techniques, grid security, among others.

### Our Expectations

We recently started contributing to OWASP and we are developing a
Portuguese translated version of Testing guide v2 in order to spread it
out to the ones who has potential language barrier.

The maintenance of attacks and vulnerability information is very close
to our activities. We believe that we have the specific knowledge and
expertise to develop this project.

### Executive Summary

We are proposing that we will research about new types of attacks and
techniques that aim to Web application/server and report all details
about each one. We are intended to explain in details each attack,
classify by severity, likelihood of exploitation and impact (when
possible), cite references and means of circumvent.

The present OWASP Attacks reference guide lists a great quantity of
attacks, but lots of them are lacking explanation and references. For
instances, [SQL Injection](http://www.owasp.org/index.php/SQL_Injection)
is completely referenced, while [Format
string](http://www.owasp.org/index.php/Format_string_attack) has only
the topics but no description at all.

Also, we plan to categorize the attacks according to testing guide
categories, in order to give a better view of the attacks related to
certain test category.

We believe that the Attack reference guide is very important to OWASP
since it describes theoretical and practical all the threats a Web
application can be susceptible, it gives the reason for OWASP existence.

The vulnerability reference guide is important as well and we will be
constantly contributing to maintain it up to date, since it misses lots
of information and references on the items. Also, it has almost 600
vulnerabilities and we are quite sure that there are some redundant or
even out-of-date items.

### Specific activities

As long we will be participating as a group, the activities will be
divided as following steps:

  - Identify all existent attacks at OWASP site.
  - Research new attacks and techniques
  - Create test scenarios and exploitation, in order to acquire
    evidences to be published (when needed)
  - Detail and reference each attacks, with most known and reliable
    sources.

### Long-Term Vision for the Project

We expect that with a worldwide contribution, the Attack and Honeycomb
project can become the most complete and updated security reference
available. Also, we expect to create cross-reference among OWASP
documents, using the same concepts, definitions, and categories in order
to inter-link all the documents.

**[Back to SpoC 007 Selection
page](http://www.owasp.org/index.php/OWASP_Spring_Of_Code_2007_Selection)**