**[Back to SpoC 007 Selection
page](http://www.owasp.org/index.php/OWASP_Spring_Of_Code_2007_Selection)**

**AoC Candidate**: Darren Edmonds

**Project coordinator**: Dinis Cruz

**Project Progress**: 0% Complete, [Progress
Page](SpoC_007_-_WebScarab_NG_Security_Test_Automation_-_Progress_Page "wikilink")

## Darren Edmonds - WebScarab NG Security Test Automation

### Background

I am a 28 year old software developer from the UK with a background in
java based web development and application security testing. I have
strong mathematical skills, a degree in software engineering, a SCJP
qualification and 8 years of commercial development experience. I have
created many web based and standalone applications delivering on time
and adhering to common software practices. I'm an avid supporter of open
source software and try to use it whenever possible in a commercial
environment. I've made contributions to the Geotools mapping project,
written a securing tomcat article for OWASP and developed a full
modification for the first person shooter Quake 3.

### Project Details

Having used numerous penetration testing applications I believe there is
a need for an open source application which supports some, or all, of
the features of the more expensive commercial products. I propose to
make WebScarab generate, record, and playback security test cases so
that regression testing is possible. If time permits I would also like
to include some extra automated tests that are not always feasible
during manual testing; searching for backup files (\~, Copy of X),
checking non-authorised access to authorised areas, common and brute
force name directory searching, etc. Perhaps include the ability to read
the test database of other scanning tools such as nikto. I have already
made contact with Rogan Dawes, original WebScarab NG author, to discuss
some initial ideas. I believe it is important that Rogan is consulted
during the initial planning phase to make sure the project keeps to a
set of consistent guidelines.

### Milestones

  - Research regression testing features in other applications
  - Create a functional specification
  - Build testing framework (possible inclusion of scripting language
    for user defined tests)
  - Testing

### Why I should be sponsored for the project

I believe I am an ideal candidate to develop the proposed additions to
WebScarab NG, not just because of my qualifications and experience, but
because I plan to use WebScarab NG in my work to help perform the
initial testing of web applications. As well as my own time my current
employer will allocate me a set amount of time to ensure the project
achieves its milestones. The end result will make WebScarab NG a much
more powerful testing tool and will be a great asset to the OWASP
community. With continued development and input from the community I see
no reason why WebScarab NG cannot rival commercial testing application
features, usability, and business benefit. Increasing WebScarab's
features will result in increased community awareness bringing in extra
developers, ensuring continual development and so the cycle starts
again.

**[Back to SpoC 007 Selection
page](http://www.owasp.org/index.php/OWASP_Spring_Of_Code_2007_Selection)**