### Chapter Information

Membership is encouraged but not required to use OWASP materials or to
participate in chapter meetings or volunteering to help with an OWASP
project. Everyone is welcome to join us at our chapter meetings.

<https://www.owasp.org/images/8/82/Meetup_logo3.jpg>
<https://www.meetup.com/St-George-Open-Web-Application-Security-Project-OWASP/>

### Upcoming Events

_

### Past Activities

October 4, 2019 - Tech industry meeting at Dixie Tech College sponsored
by Silicon Slopes ... with presentation and conversation with Jesse Bird
cofounder of TCN ... developers of cloud based call center software.
Also heard about how Dixie State University is providing support for the
2019 Code Camp at the campus Innovation Plaza.

September 6, 2019 - Tech industry meeting at Dixie Tech College
sponsored by Silicon Slopes ... with presentation and conversation with
Jimmy and Ken co-founders of Easy Storage Solutions about building a
company and developing the needed software to maintain operations.
Special thanks to the Utah State University Rural Online Initiative
(ROI) for providing lunch for the 50 + attendees.

August 2, 2019 - Tech industry meeting at Dixie Tech College sponsored
by Silicon Slopes. Thanks to Clint Reid Founder and CEO of Zonos for
sharing his thoughts and experiences with Tech startup activities.

June 7, 2019 - Tech industry meeting at Dixie Tech College sponsored by
Silicon Slopes. Thanks to Joshua Aikens for hosting Tyler Todd who
shared information about how tech can better support business
communications and productivity. Had opportunity to speak to several
students about OWASP membership and activities.

April 5, 2019 - Tech industry meeting at Dixie Tech College sponsored by
Silicon Slopes. Thanks to Joshua Aikens for hosting Dr. Eric Pederson,
Dean of Science & Technology at Dixie State University (DSU) who shared
information about DSU's K-16 STEM Pipeline (STEM.DIXIE.EDU) the purpose
of which is to build and sustain an educational course of study for
students and community members to help fill the demand for tech talent.

March 1, 2019 - Tech industry meeting at Dixie Tech College sponsored by
Silicon Slopes. Thanks to Lindison Webb for presentation about the
development process at Ticket Master / LiveNation.

February 15, 2019 - First 2019 monthly tech industry meeting at Dixie
Tech College. Sponsored by Silicon Slopes. Thanks to Printer Logic,
Jeremiah Jones and Paul Hepworth about sharing their experiences for
developing and growing cultures of continuous delivery.

December 7, 2018 - Monthly tech industry meeting sponsored by Silicon
Slopes at Dixie Tech College, St. George Utah 610 S Airport Rd 12 noon.
Thanks to the Code Camp teams for their presentations and the support
provided by Washington County, Utah - <https://www.washco.utah.gov/>

November 27, 2018 - Lecture at Dixie State University about bit coin and
block chain presented by DSU Assistant Professor of Finance Dr. Abu Khan
- <https://dixie.edu/>

October 5, 2018 - Monthly tech industry meeting sponsored by Silicon
Slopes at Dixie Tech College, <https://www.dixietech.edu/> St. George,
Utah 610 S. Airport Rd. Thanks Joshua Aikens for the presentation about
this years southern Utah Code Camp <https://southernutahcodecamp.com/>
to be held November 9th and 10th. Check the Code Camp website for
details. Participants, sponsors and volunteers needed. Pre-flight
meetings to be held in Cedar City on the Southern Utah University campus
in the Emma Eccles Jones Education Building <https://www.suu.edu/>and in
St. George in the Dixie State University, Russell Taylor Health Science
Building, near the regional medical center.

September 7, 2018 - Monthly tech industry meeting sponsored by Silicon
Slopes [(https://siliconslopes.com/)](https://siliconslopes.com/) at
Dixie Tech College, St. George, Utah 610 S Airport Rd 12 noon. Thanks
Joshua Aikens and Rusty Hughes.

August 3, 2018 - Monthly tech industry meeting sponsored by Silicon
Slopes at Dixie Tech College, St. George Utah 610 S Airport Rd 12 noon.
Thanks Joshua Aikens and Gary Stone.

### Future Activities

To be announced

### Chapter Information

Special thanks to Lee Devine at Dixie Tech for helping organized our
local chapter.

[Category:OWASP Chapter](Category:OWASP_Chapter "wikilink")
[Category:United States](Category:United_States "wikilink")