## Upcoming meetings

[OWASP Stockholm Bug Bounty Theme,
October 2nd 2018](https://www.eventbrite.com/e/owasp-stockholm-bug-bounty-theme-tickets-50414001636?utm-medium=discovery&utm-campaign=social&utm-content=attendeeshare&aff=escb&utm-source=cp&utm-term=eventcard)

## Archived Meetings

OWASP juice shop workshop with Bjoern Kimminich, September 18th 2017

**`OWASP``   ``Stockholm``   ``meeting,``   ``February``   ``15``
 ``2017:``   ``Ethereum``   ``and``   ``OWASP``   ``top``   ``10``
 ``projects`**

First OWASP Stockholm event in 2017, with Marcus Örebrand, Magnus Hultin
and Martin Swende Holst.
[Eventbrite](https://www.eventbrite.com/e/owasp-stockholm-q1-2017-registrering-31517798584).

**`OWASP``   ``Sweden``   ``Meeting,``   ``Stockholm,``   ``November``
 ``20,``   ``2012:``   ``OWASP``   ``Top``   ``10``   ``for``
 ``JavaScript``   ``+``   ``RESTful``   ``Security`**

Welcome to an OWASP Sweden seminar November 20, with Erlend Oftedal.
Book your seat at [Eventbrite](https://oftedal.eventbrite.com/).

**`OWASP``   ``Sweden``   ``Meeting,``   ``Stockholm,``   ``May``
 ``14,``   ``2012:``   ``Secure``   ``Mashups,``   ``IT``   ``Sec``
 ``in``   ``Cars,``   ``Buffer``   ``Overflow``   ``Prevention,``
 ``"How``   ``We``   ``Won``   ``the``   ``Deutche``   ``Post``
 ``Security``   ``Cup",``   ``and``   ``Multi-Step,``   ``Semi-Blind``
 ``CSRF`**

Welcome to an OWASP Sweden seminar May 14, with Jonas Magazinius,
Mattias Jidhage, and John Wilander. Book your seat at
[Eventbrite](https://14maj2012.eventbrite.com/).

**`Slides``   ``from``   ``the``   ``OWASP``   ``Sweden``
 ``Meeting,``   ``Stockholm,``   ``March``   ``20,``   ``2012`**

[Here are the slides
(.ppt.zip)](https://www.owasp.org/images/6/60/Manico_Developer_Top_Ten_Core_Controls_v4.1.ppt.zip)
from Jim Manico's presentation on "Web Application Access Control Design
Excellence".

**`OWASP``   ``Sweden``   ``Meeting,``   ``Stockholm,``   ``March``
 ``20,``   ``2012:``   ``"Web``   ``Application``   ``Access``
 ``Control``   ``Design``   ``Excellence"`**

Welcome to an OWASP Sweden seminar March 20, with Jim Manico. Book your
seat at [Eventbrite](https://owaspsweden200312.eventbrite.com/).

This event will be in English.

Sponsors for this event are:

  - F5 who is sponsoring for Jim's travel and hotel
  - .SE sponsoring with the venue
  - Cybercom who will supply you with beverage and snacks during the
    evening

The Speaker Jim Manico is a profile in the OWASP community working with
the OWASP podcasts and ESAPI amongst other things. During march he is
doing a nordic tour and will be visiting the chapters in Finland,
Sweden, Norway and Denmark and we have the pleasure of welcoming him to
Stockholm on March 20. Read more on the OWASP webpage
<https://www.owasp.org/index.php/User:Jmanico>

Abstract for Jim´s talk:

**Web Application Access Control Design Excellence**

Access Control is a necessary security control at almost every layer
within a web application. This talk will discuss several of the key
access control anti-patterns commonly found during website security
audits. These access control anti-patterns include hard-coded security
policies, lack of horizontal access control, and "fail open" access
control mechanisms. In reviewing these and other access control
problems, we will discuss and design a positive access control mechanism
that is data contextual, activity based, configurable, flexible, and
deny-by-default - among other positive design attributes that make up a
robust web-based access-control mechanism.

**`OWASP``   ``Sweden``   ``SSL``   ``Day,``   ``Stockholm,``
 ``November``   ``23``   ``2011`**

OWASP Sweden, Stockholm branch is happy to announce a full-day on the
topic of SSL in cooperation with Internetdagarna
<http://www.internetdagarna.se/ind11/program/seminarium/92>

The speakers are

  - Jakob Schlyter, Kirei
  - John Wilander, OWASP Sweden and Handelsbanken
  - Andreas Jonson, Romab
  - Henrich Pöhls, University of Passau
  - Robert Malmgren, OWASP Sweden and Romab

**`OWASP``   ``Sweden``   ``Meeting``   ``March``   ``7``   ``2011,``
 ``"Security``   ``impact``   ``of``   ``SVG"``   ``+``   ``""ECMA``
 ``Script``   ``5,``   ``a``   ``frozen``   ``DOM``   ``and``   ``the``
 ``eradication``   ``of``   ``XSS`**

Mario Heiderich works as a researcher for the Ruhr-University in Bochum,
Germany and currently focuses on HTML5, SVG security and security
implications of the ES5 specification draft while finishing his PhD
thesis.

We're very happy to invite Mario to OWASP Sweden in March. His two talks
will be given in English at Royal Institute of Technology (KTH).

Get your ticket now at
[Eventbrite](http://marioheiderich.eventbrite.com/).

Mario's slides:
[Media:Mario_Heiderich_OWASP_Sweden_The_image_that_called_me.pdf‎](Media:Mario_Heiderich_OWASP_Sweden_The_image_that_called_me.pdf‎ "wikilink")
"The Image That Called Me" on SVG security
[Media:Mario_Heiderich_OWASP_Sweden_Locking_the_throneroom.pdf‎](Media:Mario_Heiderich_OWASP_Sweden_Locking_the_throneroom.pdf‎ "wikilink")
"Locking the Throneroom" on locking the DOM to eradicate XSS

**`OWASP``   ``Sweden``   ``Meeting,``   ``Jan``   ``31``   ``2011,``
 ``"HTTP-säkerhet"`**

Daniel Stenberg, Martin Holst Swende, and John Wilander will give talks
for OWASP Sweden on Jan 31, 5:30 pm - 21 pm. The topics are Websockets,
the new Cookie RFC, Content Security Policy, HTTP Strict Transport
Security, and X-Frame-Options. We will be in lecture hall "New York",
World Trade Center, Stockholm
([map](http://www.hitta.se/SearchMixed.aspx?vad=world%20trade%20center&var=stockholm)).

[Omegapoint](http://www.omegapoint.se) are sponsors and there will be
lighter food and beers.

**`OWASP``   ``Sweden``   ``reaches``   ``500``   ``members``   ``...``
 ``and``   ``gets``   ``three``   ``leaders`**

OWASP Sweden now has a stunning 500 members on the mailing list. From
now the chapter will be lead by three co-leaders: John Wilander, Mattias
Bergling, and Robert Malmgren.

**`OWASP``   ``Sweden``   ``invites``   ``Samy``   ``Kamkar,``
 ``October``   ``4,``   ``2010`**

Samy Kamkar, famous for the [Samy XSS attack on
MySpace](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Samy_\(XSS\)) in 2005 will be
giving a talk for OWASP Sweden on October 4, 5:30 pm - 22 pm. We will be
in Ljusgården, Årstaängsvägen 19, Marievik/Liljeholmen, Stockholm
([map](http://www.hitta.se/LargeMap.aspx?var=%c5rsta%e4ngsv%e4gen+19%2c+Liljeholmen%2fMarievik%2c+Stockholm)).

Nexus Safe and Data@UrService are sponsors and there will be lighter
food and beers.

[Media:OWASP_Sweden_Samy_Kamkar_oktober_2010.pdf](Media:OWASP_Sweden_Samy_Kamkar_oktober_2010.pdf "wikilink")

Go to [EventBrite](http://samykamkar.eventbrite.com/) and register for
free now\!

**`OWASP-Sweden``   ``+``   ``FOSS``   ``Sthlm``   ``"Community``
 ``Hack"``   ``September``   ``4-5``   ``2010`**

The first weekend of September OWASP Sweden together with FOSS Sthlm
invite our members to Community Hack II in Stockholm. A full weekend of
hacking on open projects, testing new security hacks, trying out tools
(for instance the favorite OWASP tool you've always wanted to learn), or
writing new, open guidelines.

Go to [EventBrite](http://communityhack2.eventbrite.com/) and register
for free now\!

**`OWASP``   ``AppSec``   ``Research``   ``2010``   ``in``
 ``Stockholm,``   ``June``   ``21-24``   ``2010`**

June 21-24, 2010 appsec people will meet in beautiful Stockholm, Sweden.
The OWASP chapters in Sweden, Norway, and Denmark together with
Stockholm University host the [OWASP AppSec
Research 2010](http://www.owasp.org/index.php/OWASP_AppSec_Research_2010_-_Stockholm,_Sweden).

**`OWASP-Sweden``   ``Meeting``   ``January``   ``21st``   ``2010``
 ``--``   ``The``   ``Big``   ``Protocols`**

Stiftelsen för Internetinfrastruktur (.SE) and Swedish Network Users'
Society (SNUS) invite us to three seminars on the big protocols: BGP,
DNSSEC, and SSL/TLS.

Program and invitation (in Swedish):
![<File:OWASP_Sweden_-_De_stora_protokollen_2010-01-21.pdf>](OWASP_Sweden_-_De_stora_protokollen_2010-01-21.pdf
"File:OWASP_Sweden_-_De_stora_protokollen_2010-01-21.pdf")

**`OWASP-Sweden``   ``Meeting``   ``December``   ``2nd``   ``2009``
 ``--``   ``OWASP``   ``Top``   ``10``   ``2010``   ``(rc1)`**

Omegapoint invites us to discuss the release candidate of OWASP Top 10
2010 that was presented at OWASP AppSec DC November 13th. The invitation
in Swedish is found ![here](OWASP_Sweden_Top_10_december_2009.pdf
"here"). **Don't forget to send an email to John Wilander
(john.wilander@owasp.org) no later than November 23rd to say you're
coming.** Seats usually fill up fast.

**`OWASP``   ``AppSec``   ``Research``   ``2010,``   ``June``
 ``21-24``   ``in``   ``Stockholm,``   ``Sweden`**

OWASP Sweden, Norway, and Denmark invite you to OWASP AppSec Research
2010, June 21-24 in Stockholm. Read more on the [conference wiki
page](https://www.owasp.org/index.php/OWASP_AppSec_Research_2010_-_Stockholm%2C_Sweden).

**`OWASP-Sweden``   ``Meeting``   ``April``   ``28th``   ``2009``
 ``--``   ``Code``   ``Analysis``   ``and``   ``Review`**

The second chapter meeting of 2009 will be held on Tuesday April 28th at
Clarion Hotel Stockholm. The focus is code analysis and code review.
Fortify sponsors the event and welcome the chapter members to
refreshments, starting at 17.30.

The program:

  - Fredrik Möller (Fortify) will biefly present Fortify and their
    support of OWASP
  - David Anumudu (Fortify) will present and do a live demo of Fortify
    Solution
  - James Dickson (Simovits Consulting) will give a talk on code review

**Don't forget to send an email to John Wilander
(john.wilander@omegapoint.se) no later than April 23rd to say you're
coming.** We need to know how many will turn up.

**`OWASP-Sweden``   ``Meeting``   ``March``   ``26th``   ``2009``
 ``--``   ``XSS``   ``&``   ``CSRF`**

The first meeting of 2009 will be held Thursday March 26th at LabCenter,
Oxtorgsgränd 2, Stockholm. The focus is cross-site scripting and
cross-site request forgery, attacks and countermeasures. Inspect it and
LabCenter sponsor the event and welcome the chapter members to
refreshments, starting at 17.00.

The program:

  - Hasain Alshakarti, TrueSec: "XSS & CSRF -- A Deadly Cocktail"
  - Sergio Molero, Concrete IT: "Skydd mot XSS och CSRF"

**Don't forget to send an email to Mattias Bergling
(mattias.bergling@inspectit.se) no later than March 23rd to say you're
coming.** We need to know how many will turn up.

**`OWASP-Sweden``   ``Meeting``   ``November``   ``19th``   ``2008``
 ``--``   ``PCI``   ``DSS`**

The next chapter meeting is Wednesday November 19th. The focus of the
seminars is on PCI-DSS, i.e. security in payment card handling on the
Internet. The program:

  - Mats Henriksson, Pan Nordic Card Assoc: "PCI DSS - Tre goda
    anledningar"
  - Pål Göran Stensson, Defensor Sverige AB: "PCI DSS - Externa krav och
    konsulten"
  - Bengt Berg, Cybercom Sweden East AB: "Olika angreppssätt på PCI DSS"

**The meeting is fully booked. But do send an email to John Wilander
(john.wilander@omegapoint.se) to say you're interested and we'll let you
know if seats become available.**

**`OWASP``   ``Sweden``   ``Hosts``   ``the``   ``OWASP``   ``AppSec``
 ``Europe``   ``Conference``   ``2010`**

We're hosting the European OWASP AppSec conference in 2010\! Please read
the
[announcement](http://www.owasp.org/index.php/OWASP_AppSec_Europe_2010_-_Sweden).

**`OWASP-Sweden``   ``Meeting``   ``October``   ``6th``   ``2008``
 ``--``   ``Security``   ``in``   ``the``   ``Open``   ``Source``
 ``Process`**

The next chapter meeting is Monday October 6th at Clarion Hotel
Stockholm (Skanstull). The focus of the seminars will be on "Security in
the Open Source Process". Refreshments will be served from 16:30 and the
seminars will commence at 17:30. Except for a closing panel discussion
the program contains the following:

  - Simon Josefsson, SJD: ”Anekdoter och lärdomar från granskning av
    säkerhetsprogram”
  - Daniel Stenberg, daniel.haxx.se: ”Säker kod och utveckling i
    cURL-projektet”
  - Anders Karlsson, MySQL och Sun Microsystems: ”MySQL: Säkerhet i ett
    kommersiellt open source-projekt”

**Don't forget to send an email to Robert Malmgren (anmalan@romab.com)
no later than September 29th to say you're coming.** We need to know how
many will turn up.

**`OWASP-Sweden``   ``Meeting``   ``May``   ``27th``   ``2008``   ``-``
 ``SQL``   ``Injection,``   ``Web``   ``Scarab`**

OWASP-Sweden welcomes its members to the next chapter meeting - Tuesday
May 27th at Clarion Hotel Stockholm. Refreshments will be served from
17:00, demos will be shown from 17:30, and the seminars will commence at
18:00. The main attractions are:

  - Patrik Karlson, Inspect it: "SQL injection, identifiering och
    utnyttjande"
  - Johannes Gumbel, TrueSec: "WebScarab—funktioner, fördelar och
    nackdelar"

**Don't forget to send an email to Mattias Bergling
(mattias.bergling@inspectit.se) no later than May 21st to say you're
coming.** We need to know how many will turn up.

**`Kick-Off``   ``Meeting``   ``for``   ``OWASP-Sweden``   ``April``
 ``1st``   ``2008`**

The OWASP-Sweden kick-off will be held at WTC in Stockholm on April 1st.
Yeah, it's April Fool's Day but we go under the tagline "Application
Security is Not a Joke". The presentation program includes:

  - Andrei Sabelfeld, well-known security researcher from Chalmers
  - Michael Anderberg, Chief Security Advisor at Microsoft Sweden
  - Per Mellstrand, software analyst at Sony Ericsson and researcher at
    Blekinge Institute of Technology

**Don't forget to send an email to John Wilander
(john.wilander@omegapoint.se) no later than March 27 to say you're
coming.** We need to know how many will turn up.

We're kicking off\!

**`OWASP-Sweden``   ``in``   ``Computer``   ``Sweden``   ``-``
 ``08:44,``   ``19``   ``Dec``   ``2007``   ``(EDT)`**

Today the Swedish national IT newspaper 'Computer Sweden' published an
article on the new OWASP-Sweden chapter - [*Mecka för säker
programmering till
Sverige*](http://computersweden.idg.se/2.2683/1.137387), or *A Mecka for
Secure Programming Reaches Sweden* in English. While OWASP is more than
a programmer's guide, Mattias Bergling and I are very happy to get the
news out to a large part of Sweden's IT industry.

**To become a member of Owasp-Sweden just join the [mailing
list](http://lists.owasp.org/mailman/listinfo/owasp-sweden).**

**`OWASP-Sweden``   ``opens!``   ``-``   ``22:25,``   ``01``   ``Oct``
 ``2007``   ``(EDT)`**

Finally, Sweden has joined the OWASP movement and John Wilander, the
local chapter leader, welcomes members to the Stockholm-based
OWASP-Sweden. Please, join our mailing list. Plans for meetings and
seminars will be made.

Are you interested in helping out? Do you have ideas for great invited
speakers or workshop meetings? Feel free to contact the chapter.

[Category:Sweden](Category:Sweden "wikilink")
[Category:Europe](Category:Europe "wikilink")