[**Back to Attendee List**](Summit_2013_Attendee "wikilink") | [**Back
to main Summit 2013 page**](Summit_2013 "wikilink")

\-- PLEASE ADD BIOS IN ABC ORDER BY SURNAME USING THE TEMPLATE BELOW:

## Surname, Given-name

<div align="left" style="float: left; margin: 0 4px 0 0; padding: 4px; border: 1px solid #aaa;">

![PicComingSoon.jpg](PicComingSoon.jpg "PicComingSoon.jpg")

</div>

<div style=“text-align:justify”>

Enter bio here.

</div>


\--\>

*Add* a bio using the *page* edit link; *change* a bio using the
*section* edit link.

## Bates, Sean

<div align="left" style="float: left; margin: 0 4px 0 0; padding: 4px; border: 1px solid #aaa;">

![Bates_s.jpg](Bates_s.jpg "Bates_s.jpg")

</div>

<div style=“text-align:justify”>

Sean has been in IT for 25 years, mostly working in development. He is a
security analyst at Farm Credit Canada.

</div>



## Belokamen,Serg

<div align="left" style="float: left; margin: 0 4px 0 0; padding: 4px; border: 1px solid #aaa;">

![Belokamen_s.jpg](Belokamen_s.jpg "Belokamen_s.jpg")

</div>

<div style=“text-align:justify”>

Serg is a co-founder and a CTO of Bugcrowd. Bugcrowd delivers ad-hoc,
ongoing and objective-based bug bounties. Our clients can elect to
engage the full crowd, or run a private bounty with just the top ranked
testers. Our service let's you test web, mobile and client-side
applications using our curated crowd of 3,500 security researchers and
Crowdcontrol - our unique bug bounty management platform.

Serg is passionate about all things IT Security and Internet in general.
And has spent most of his nerdy career in the Application Security
space, working on a broad range of application security projects, from
source code analysis and penetration testing to developing secure
software development lifecycle processes and online fraud prevention
platforms.

</div>



## Bennetts,Simon

<div align="left" style="float: left; margin: 0 4px 0 0; padding: 4px; border: 1px solid #aaa;">

![SimonBennetts-OWASP.jpg](SimonBennetts-OWASP.jpg
"SimonBennetts-OWASP.jpg")

</div>

<div style=“text-align:justify”>

Simon Bennetts (a.k.a. Psiinon) has been developing web applications
since 1997, and strongly believes that you cannot build secure web
applications without knowing how to attack them. He works for Mozilla as
part of their Security Team.

Some of the projects Simon works on:

`   OWASP Zed Attack Proxy project lead`
`   Mozilla Zest poject lead`
`   Bodge It Store project lead`
`   OWASP Web Application Security Testing Cheat Sheet joint author`
`   OWASP AppSensor contributor`
`   wavsep contributor`
`   OWASP Data Exchange Format project lead (currently inactive) `

He is also started an co-leads the OWASP Manchester chapter. Simon has a
B.Sc in Computing and Information Systems from Manchester University.

</div>



## Cooper, Chuck

<div align="left" style="float: left; margin: 0 4px 0 0; padding: 4px; border: 1px solid #aaa;">

![Cooper_c.jpg](Cooper_c.jpg "Cooper_c.jpg")

</div>

<div style=“text-align:justify”>

Currently CISO and Sr. VP of Enterprise Architecture at Paylocity
Corporation where he has helped develop Software-as-a-Service (Saas)
Payroll, HR, Time and Labor Management, and Online Benefits Enrollment
solutions. Software Engineer for 25+ years working on products like
Great Plains Property Management, Borland Paradox, Niku (which was
acquired by CA and rebranded as Clarity), and Paylocity Web Pay.

</div>



## Corwin,Bev

<div align="left" style="float: left; margin: 0 4px 0 0; padding: 4px; border: 1px solid #aaa;">

![Corwin,b.jpg](Corwin,b.jpg "Corwin,b.jpg")

</div>

<div style=“text-align:justify”>

Member Representative for the IDESG Identity Ecosystem, OWASP
Foundation.

</div>



## Cruz, Dinis

<div align="left" style="float: left; margin: 0 4px 0 0; padding: 4px; border: 1px solid #aaa;">

![Project_Track.jpg](Project_Track.jpg "Project_Track.jpg")

</div>

<div style=“text-align:justify”>

Dinis Cruz is a Security Consultant based in London (UK) and specialized
in: ASP.NET/J2EE Application Security, Application Security audits and
.NET Security Curriculum Development. For the past couple years Dinis
has focused on the field of Static Source Code Analysis and Dynamic
Website Assessments (aka penetration testing), and is the main developer
of the OWASP O2 Platform which is an Open Source project that is focused
on 'Automating Security Consultants Knowledge/Workflows' and 'Allowing
non-security experts to access and consume Security Knowledge'. Dinis is
currently focused on making the O2 Platform the industry standard for
consuming, instrumenting and data-sharing between: the multiple
WebAppSec tools, the Security consultants and the final users (from
management to developers). Past industry experience include: running a
small Software/Consultancy business, acting as CTO for a Portuguese
University, being part of a Security Assessment team (Pentesting and
Source Code Assessment) for a global Bank (ABN AMRO), taking the role of
Directory of Advanced Technologies at Ounce Labs (acquired by IBM)
performing Web Application security assessments on a large number of
languages/technologies/frameworks and being a very active participant
and enabler at OWASP.

</div>



## Curiel,Johanna

<div align="left" style="float: left; margin: 0 4px 0 0; padding: 4px; border: 1px solid #aaa;">

![Johanna_curiel.jpg](Johanna_curiel.jpg "Johanna_curiel.jpg")

</div>

<div style=“text-align:justify”>

Johanna has mainly worked in the area of C\# and ASP.NET development,
Testing and Quality Control. She is an experienced developer and
understands different types of programming languages such as Java and
PHP and different types of scripting languages. Johanna has ample
experience in Microsoft Technologies and Security Engineering. EDUCATION

`   MSc. Information Technology with specialization in Security Engineering, University of Liverpool`
`   BSc. Civil Engineering, University of the Netherlands Antilles `

</div>



## Dave, Jaydeep

<div align="left" style="float: left; margin: 0 4px 0 0; padding: 4px; border: 1px solid #aaa;">

![Dave_j.jpg](Dave_j.jpg "Dave_j.jpg")

</div>

<div style=“text-align:justify”>

Jaydeep is the Project Manager for Trend Micro. He has detailed
knowledge of web application security and has broad experience in
different development technologies.

</div>



## DeLaGrange, Tony

<div align="left" style="float: left; margin: 0 4px 0 0; padding: 4px; border: 1px solid #aaa;">

![Delagrange_t.jpg](Delagrange_t.jpg "Delagrange_t.jpg")

</div>

\<div style=“text-align:justify”Tony DeLaGrange is a Senior Penetration
Tester at Fidelity National Information Services, bringing over
twenty-five years of information technology experience in the healthcare
and financial services industries. For over the past decade, Tony has
focused on information security within a leading Fortune 50 financial
institution, providing the design of security reference architecture,
development of information security policies, standards, and baselines,
as well as the assessment and testing of emerging technologies. His
experience includes managing large networking and messaging
environments, assessing controls and establishing security requirements
for large technology project implementations, driving change through
leading an information security center of excellence, and influencing
key technology and business stakeholders at all levels. Most recently,
Tony led a penetration team that augmented the IT Audit program,
providing a threat-based perspective to the standard general controls
audit review process. For many years, Tony has had a keen interest in
mobile security, specifically with mobile devices within a corporate
environment, and is currently focused on the development of open source
mobile testing tools.

</div>



## Deleersnyder,Sebastien

<div align="left" style="float: left; margin: 0 4px 0 0; padding: 4px; border: 1px solid #aaa;">

![Sebastiend.jpg](Sebastiend.jpg "Sebastiend.jpg")

</div>

<div style=“text-align:justify”>

As security project leader and information security officer for multiple
customers I have built up extensive experience in Information Security
related disciplines, both at strategic and tactical level.

I specialize in (Web) Application Security, combining both my software
development and information security experience. In the last 10 years I
have performed several successful secure development lifecycle projects
in the financial and utility sector, started up software security
groups, supported customers in selecting and implementing Web
Application Firewalls (WAF), delivered web application security training
and closed a lot of audit findings regarding application security :-).

I started the Belgian OWASP Chapter Leader, am member of the OWASP
Foundation Board and performed several public presentations on Web
Application and Web Services Security. I also co-organize the yearly
security & hacker BruCON conference and trainings in Belgium.

</div>



## Ellis,Casey

<div align="left" style="float: left; margin: 0 4px 0 0; padding: 4px; border: 1px solid #aaa;">

![Ellis_c.jpg](Ellis_c.jpg "Ellis_c.jpg")

</div>

<div style=“text-align:justify”>

Prior to Bugcrowd Casey had 12 years experience in information security,
servicing clients ranging from the very small to to the very large. He
started off as a tech - penetration testing and so on - and gradually
migrated to the business side. He has lots of experience in security
strategy, compliance remediation and generally "adding value to
infosec". He has been active in the tech start-up space in a range of
roles: CEO, CSO, mentor, go-to-market strategist, technical architecture
adviser.

</div>



## Femerling,Simon Roses

<div align="left" style="float: left; margin: 0 4px 0 0; padding: 4px; border: 1px solid #aaa;">

![Femerling_s.jpg](Femerling_s.jpg "Femerling_s.jpg")

</div>

<div style=“text-align:justify”>

Simon Roses holds a B.S. from Suffolk University (Boston), Postgraduate
in E-Commerce from Harvard University (Boston) and Executive MBA from IE
Business School (IE, Madrid). Frequent speaker at security industry
events including BLACK HAT, RSA, OWASP, SOURCE. DeepSec and Microsoft
Security Technets.

</div>



## Gondrom, Tobias

<div align="left" style="float: left; margin: 0 4px 0 0; padding: 4px; border: 1px solid #aaa;">

![Gondrom_t.jpg](Gondrom_t.jpg "Gondrom_t.jpg")

</div>

<div style=“text-align:justify”>

Tobias Gondrom is CEO at Thames Stanley, a boutique Global CISO and
Information Security & Risk Management Advisory based in Hong Kong,
United Kingdom and Germany. Currently, he is a board member of the OWASP
London and the CSA Hong Kong and Macau chapters and leads the OWASP CISO
Report and Survey project. He is an ISC2 CSSLP and CISSP Instructor.
Tobias has authored the Internet standards RFC 4998, RFC 6283 and RFC
7034, also co-authored the books „Secure Electronic Archiving“ and the
OWASP CISO Guide and is a frequent presenter at conferences and
publication of articles (e.g. AppSec, IETF, ISSE, ...).

</div>



## Groves, Denis

<div align="left" style="float: left; margin: 0 4px 0 0; padding: 4px; border: 1px solid #aaa;">

![Dennis.groves.jpg](Dennis.groves.jpg "Dennis.groves.jpg")

</div>

<div style=“text-align:justify”>

Dennis Groves is a well known thought leader in application security
who's work focuses on multidisciplinary approaches to information
security risk management. He holds an MSc in Information Security from
the University of Royal Holloway, University of London. He is currently
a UK expert for the UK mirror of ISO subcommittee 27, WG4. I was also
the first author and editor of the OWASP Guide.

</div>



## Groves, Samantha

<div align="left" style="float: left; margin: 0 4px 0 0; padding: 4px; border: 1px solid #aaa;">

![Samgroves.jpg](Samgroves.jpg "Samgroves.jpg")

</div>

<div style=“text-align:justify”>

Samantha Groves is the Project Manager at OWASP. Samantha has led many
projects in her career, some of which include website development, brand
development, sustainability and socio-behavioural research projects,
competitor analysis, event organisation and management, volunteer
engagement projects, staff recruitment and training, and marketing
department organisation and strategy implementation projects for a
variety of commercial and not-for-profit organisations. She is eager to
begin her work at OWASP and help the organisation reach its project
completion goals.

Samantha earned her MBA in International Management with a concentration
in sustainability from Royal Holloway, University of London. She earned
her Bachelor's degree majoring in Multimedia from The University of
Advancing Technology in Mesa, Arizona, and she earned her Associate's
degree from Scottsdale Community College in Scottsdale, Arizona.
Additionally, Samantha recently attained her Prince2 (Foundation)
project management certification.

</div>



## Haddix,Jason

<div align="left" style="float: left; margin: 0 4px 0 0; padding: 4px; border: 1px solid #aaa;">

![Haddix_j.jpg](Haddix_j.jpg "Haddix_j.jpg")

</div>

<div style=“text-align:justify”>

Jason Haddix is a security researcher and consultant at
www.securityaegis.com. Jason is also the Director of Penetration Testing
at Hewlett Packard and Fortify Software. Jason performs and trains
internal candidates on mobile penetration testing, black box web
application auditing, network/infrastructural security assessments,
cursory mainframe security analysis, cloud architecture reviews,
wireless network assessment, binary reverse engineering, and static
analysis. He is also a semi-regular player on the capture the flag team
Shellphish, an academic hacking group based out of the University of
California, Santa Barbara.

</div>



## Hidalgo,Michael

<div align="left" style="float: left; margin: 0 4px 0 0; padding: 4px; border: 1px solid #aaa;">

![Michael_hidalgo.jpg](Michael_hidalgo.jpg "Michael_hidalgo.jpg")

</div>

<div style=“text-align:justify”>

Michael is a Software Developer Engineer based on San José, Costa
Rica.He has been working in the banking area for the last 5 years and
during that time, he was involved in different banking areas including
investments and online systems. Michael is a researcher in Web
technologies including JSON,Atom,RSS,Web Services, Rest, Jquery and
Security. At OWASP Michael is the chapter leader in Costa Rica and he is
a recurrent collaborator in the OWASP O2 Platfom lead by Dinis Cruz.

</div>



## Hoyos, Carlos

<div align="left" style="float: left; margin: 0 4px 0 0; padding: 4px; border: 1px solid #aaa;">

![PicComingSoon.jpg](PicComingSoon.jpg "PicComingSoon.jpg")

</div>

<div style=“text-align:justify”>

Carlos breaks things and builds them better. He is a math geek with
security passion, looking for ways to make security easier and smarter.
He makes applications more robust through security analytics, and moves
away from password based only id.

</div>



## Hurley, James

<div align="left" style="float: left; margin: 0 4px 0 0; padding: 4px; border: 1px solid #aaa;">

![PicComingSoon.jpg](PicComingSoon.jpg "PicComingSoon.jpg")

</div>

<div style=“text-align:justify”>

James is a Software Development Manager at the Texas Conference of Urban
Counties. He has over 14 years of experience in leading teams to produce
innovative, practical solutions across an array of domains and
technologies.

</div>



## Knobloch, Martinh

<div align="left" style="float: left; margin: 0 4px 0 0; padding: 4px; border: 1px solid #aaa;">

![Martin-knobloch_6.png](Martin-knobloch_6.png "Martin-knobloch_6.png")

</div>

<div style=“text-align:justify”>

Martin is an independent security consultant and owner of PervaSec
(http://www.pervasec.nl). His main working area is (software) security
in general, from awareness to implementation. In his daily work, he is
responsible for education in application security matters, advise and
implementation of application security measures.

Martin got involved in OWASP in 2006. He became a member of the OWASP
Netherland Chapter board in 2007. He has contributed to several OWASP
projects and is co-organizer of the OWASP BeNeLux-Day conference since
2008. Martin has been chair of the Global Education Committee from 2008
until the ending of the Global Committees.

Martin is a frequent speaker at universities, hacker spaces and various
conferences.

</div>



## Mannino,Jack

<div align="left" style="float: left; margin: 0 4px 0 0; padding: 4px; border: 1px solid #aaa;">

![Mannino_j.jpeg](Mannino_j.jpeg "Mannino_j.jpeg")

</div>

<div style=“text-align:justify”>

Jack Mannino is a managing partner at nVisium Security, a leading
provider of mobile application and web application security services. At
nVisium he is responsible for ensuring that all services are delivered
at the highest levels of quality and with keen attention to detail. He
focuses on mobile application security research (especially Android),
and is the co-leader of the OWASP Mobile Security Project. In addition
to the Mobile Security Project, Jack is also heavily involved with the
OWASP Northern Virginia Chapter where he serves as the chapter leader.

Jack is the lead developer for the OWASP GoatDroid Project, and is a
contributor to the OWASP RailsGoat Project.

</div>



## Marcil,Jonathan

<div align="left" style="float: left; margin: 0 4px 0 0; padding: 4px; border: 1px solid #aaa;">

![Marcil_j.jpg](Marcil_j.jpg "Marcil_j.jpg")

</div>

<div style=“text-align:justify”>

As the chapter leader of OWASP Montreal, Jonathan manages most of the
events and do the online community management. He is filling up the 2013
chapter's agenda with continuous events and bring new activities than
just presentations the way we are used to: Workshops on OWASP projects,
community mash-up with other programming related user groups, doing
talks in various venues and online events using YouTube and Google
Hangouts. He is also Advisor of the security track of ConFoo, a Web
techno conference held each year in Montreal that gathers over 600 Web
developers and enthusiasts. Aside from OWASP participation, Jonathan is
involved in many communities events in new technologies such as
NorthSec, a technical computer security competition, where he is working
on Web related exercises as a challenge designer. His main occupation is
consulting in Web application security, but deep down he is a developer
with a agnostic vision of programming languages. He holds a diploma in
Software Engineering from Ecole de Technologie Superieure and have more
than 10 years of experience in Information Technology and Security.

</div>



## Mishra,Suchit

<div align="left" style="float: left; margin: 0 4px 0 0; padding: 4px; border: 1px solid #aaa;">

![Mishra_s.jpg](Mishra_s.jpg "Mishra_s.jpg")

</div>

<div style=“text-align:justify”>

A seasoned security leader with over a decade of experience in the
information, software, and network security industry. Very
entrepreneurial and customer focused team player with excellent
communication skills. The current senior manager in enterprise security
at salesforce.com.

</div>



## Naderi, Abbas

<div align="left" style="float: left; margin: 0 4px 0 0; padding: 4px; border: 1px solid #aaa;">

![10347ca.jpg](10347ca.jpg "10347ca.jpg")

</div>

<div style=“text-align:justify”>

Abbas has spent considerable time in OWASP and deems himself one of the
people who is pushing OWASP forward in every direction. He am also
currently chapter leader of Iran in OWASP and has participated in OWASP
Projects for more than 5 years :

`   OWASP ASVS`
`   OWASP ESAPI`
`   OWASP WebGoat`
`   OWASP TOP 10`
`  `

He is leading OWASP PHP Security Project, OWASP RBAC Project and a
handful of others and has plans for a lot more to come\! On top of that
he takes part in other open source communities, trying to improve the
security aspects of every software.

## Okada,Riotaro

<div align="left" style="float: left; margin: 0 4px 0 0; padding: 4px; border: 1px solid #aaa;">

![Okada_r.jpg](Okada_r.jpg "Okada_r.jpg")

</div>

<div style=“text-align:justify”>

Founder of AsteriskResearch, Inc. and OWASP Japan Chapter Leader.

</div>



## Papapanagiotou,Konstantinos

<div align="left" style="float: left; margin: 0 4px 0 0; padding: 4px; border: 1px solid #aaa;">

![Konstantinos_Papapanagiotou.jpg](Konstantinos_Papapanagiotou.jpg
"Konstantinos_Papapanagiotou.jpg")

</div>

<div style=“text-align:justify”>

Greek Chapter Leader and Senior Information Security Consultant/Team
Leader at Voice@Net.

</div>



## Ritter-Guth,Beth

<div align="left" style="float: left; margin: 0 4px 0 0; padding: 4px; border: 1px solid #aaa;">

![Ritter-guth_b.jpg](Ritter-guth_b.jpg "Ritter-guth_b.jpg")

</div>

<div style=“text-align:justify”>

Director of Instructional Design at Union County College.

</div>



## Robertson,James

<div align="left" style="float: left; margin: 0 4px 0 0; padding: 4px; border: 1px solid #aaa;">

![Robertson_j.jpg](Robertson_j.jpg "Robertson_j.jpg")

</div>

<div style=“text-align:justify”>

Academic Director Computer Science, University of Maryland University
College.

</div>



## Schmidt, Chris

<div align="left" style="float: left; margin: 0 4px 0 0; padding: 4px; border: 1px solid #aaa;">

![Chris_schmidt.jpg](Chris_schmidt.jpg "Chris_schmidt.jpg")

</div>

<div style=“text-align:justify”>

Chris is currently the Project Leader for the OWASP ESAPI Projects and
also serves on the OWASP Global Projects Committee. He has been involved
with OWASP for 4 years and has spoken at many OWASP events about the
benefits of the Enterprise Security API as well as participated in
Leadership discussions amongst the organization.

During the day, Chris is an Application Security Engineer and Senior
Software Engineer for Aspect Security where he has been since fall 2010.
Prior to joining the team at Aspect Security he spent 5 years as 'Black
Ops Beef' for ServiceMagic Inc with the official title of Software
Engineer. Before getting involved in software professionally, Chris
worked in hardware as a Senior Field Service Engineer providing hardware
and software support for PC’s, Servers, Midrange Systems and Peripherals
for 9 years.

</div>



## Skrilec, Guillermo

<div align="left" style="float: left; margin: 0 4px 0 0; padding: 4px; border: 1px solid #aaa;">

![<File:Skrilec> g.jpg150px](Skrilec_g.jpg150px
"File:Skrilec g.jpg150px")

</div>

<div style=“text-align:justify”>

Guillermo is a SQA Manager at GeneXus Consulting.

</div>



## Srinivasan, Sasikumar

<div align="left" style="float: left; margin: 0 4px 0 0; padding: 4px; border: 1px solid #aaa;">

![Srinivasan_s.jpg](Srinivasan_s.jpg "Srinivasan_s.jpg")

</div>

<div style=“text-align:justify”>

Sasikumar is the Director of Information Security at ZohoCorp.

</div>



## Wall, Kevin

<div align="left" style="float: left; margin: 0 4px 0 0; padding: 4px; border: 1px solid #aaa;">

![Kevin_wall.jpg](Kevin_wall.jpg "Kevin_wall.jpg")

</div>

<div style=“text-align:justify”>

Experienced Application Security developer, OWASP ESAPI co-owner /
committer, secure code reviews

</div>



## Williams,Jeff

<div align="left" style="float: left; margin: 0 4px 0 0; padding: 4px; border: 1px solid #aaa;">

![Williams_j.jpg](Williams_j.jpg "Williams_j.jpg")

</div>

<div style=“text-align:justify”>

Jess is the CEO of Aspect Security and has served as the volunteer Chair
of the OWASP Foundation from 2003 to 2012. He has dedicated his life to
trying to make the world’s software more secure, and so he create lots
of free and open tools, libraries, guidance, and standards to try to
change the status quo.

</div>



## current summit 2013 team

see the
[Summit_2011_Attendee_Bios](Summit_2011_Attendee_Bios "wikilink")
page for more examples