<noinclude>![Image:Summit_banner_ad.jpg](Summit_banner_ad.jpg
"Image:Summit_banner_ad.jpg")
[**Back to main Summit 2011 page**](Summit_2011 "wikilink") </noinclude>

# Background

During the previous [Summit](OWASP_EU_Summit_2008 "wikilink"), OWASP was
fortunate enough to be able to fund all OWASP leaders to attend the
Summit. Unfortunately, the budget for the 2011 Summit is not as large as
the previous budget. As a result, the Summit Committee is making the
following compromise with our attendees: we will provide the venue
meeting rooms, the A/V equipment, and the venue supporting staff in
order to enable attendees to work effectively; attendees just have to
pay for travel and accommodations for themselves.

We have aggressively negotiated with multiple venues in order to find
the best possible pricing for attendee accommodations. As you know, the
Summit is *not* a conference - it is an opportunity to bring together
the community to "get stuff done". OWASP is ***not*** making any revenue
from the Summit - we are charging essentially *at cost* prices for the
accommodations and food. There is only a small deviation simply due to
villa room configuration, as we expect to have some villas that are not
filled to capacity.

# Summit Operational Budget

The Summit **Operational** Budget is $50k. The venue costs currently
account for 40% of the Summit budget, with the possibility of an
additional 10% increase in order to procure another meeting room should
it become necessary. Another 20% of the Summit budget is being held as a
cash flow reserve to cover things like exchange/wire fees, unexpected
venue expenses, incidentals, and other miscellaneous expenses. The final
20% of the Summit budget will be used for operational expenses.

<paypal>Summit</paypal>

# Summit Sponsorship Fund

The Summit Sponsorship Fund is estimated to have $50k of funding
available. This fund is administered by the OWASP Board. As one of the
primary goals of the Summit is for OWASP leadership to meet to set the
agenda for 2011, the Board prioritized funding for the following
parties:

1.  OWASP Staff
2.  Board Members
3.  *Active* Global Committee Members (as determined by the Board in
    consultation with the respective elected Committee Chairs)

The remainder of the budget will be used by the Board to fund as many
attendees as possible. The Board has decided to use a ranking system to
select the individuals who will receive the funds currently available,
as well as any funds that the Summit may receive through corporate
sponsorships or other budget allocations. To learn more about the
ranking system, see [Dinis Cruz's
email](https://lists.owasp.org/pipermail/owasp-summit-2011/2011-January/000518.html)
to Summit sponsorship applicants on 5 January 2011.

The [first round of
sponsorships](Summit_2011_Attendee/Summit_Attendees_Funds_-_Ranking_for_10th_Jan_2010 "wikilink")
using the ranking system was decided and awarded on 10 January 2011.

The [second round of
sponsorships](Summit_2011_Attendee/Summit_Attendees_Funds_-_Ranking_for_18th_Jan_2010 "wikilink")
using the ranking system was decided and awarded on 18 January 2011.

Unfortunately, the Board will not be able to fund everyone that wants to
attend. If you are able to obtain funding through your employer,
*please* do so. The Summit Committee has prepared a number of
[letters](Summit_2011_Promotional_Materials#Template_Attendee_Letters "wikilink")
that you can give your employer - we can even mail signed copies of the
letter directly to your employer on request\!

# Funding Request Application Process

Please remember that funding for attendees is ***extremely*** limited
this year. If you are able to obtain funding through your employer,
*please* do so. We have prepared a number of
[letters](Summit_2011_Promotional_Materials#Template_Attendee_Letters "wikilink")
that you can give your employer - we can even mail signed copies of the
letter directly to your employer on request\!

If you need funding to support your attendance to the Summit, please
take the following steps:

1.  Add your name to the list of attendees that need funding support by
    entering your name on the [Attendee
    page](Summit_2011_Attendee#Confirmed_Summit_Attendees:_Seeking_Funds.2FSponsorship "wikilink").
    To add your name to the Attendee page, [go to the
    page](Summit_2011_Attendee#Confirmed_Summit_Attendees:_Seeking_Funds.2FSponsorship "wikilink")
    and find the first blank line without a name. Click on the "Edit"
    link as show below and add your details.
    <span style="color:red">Make sure to include your email address in
    the Attendee form or we won't be able to contact
    you\!</span>![summit-funding.png](summit-funding.png
    "summit-funding.png").
2.  Contact [Sarah Baso](mailto:sarah.baso@owasp.org) or [Dinis
    Cruz](mailto:dinis.cruz@owasp.org) to find out the current status of
    funds available as well as if (and when) the Board will be selecting
    the next round of sponsorships for the Summit.
3.  Fill out [this
    application](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1TBj0BxBnzx8P7SegtEc8dSUNlQdLEZ5xXTbwfbdh6Bg/edit?hl=en&authkey=CNvixYEL)
    to ask for sponsorship by your local Chapter or a Project that you
    contribute to or lead and send it to [Sarah
    Baso](mailto:sarah.base@owasp.org)

You ***must*** follow these directions to be considered for funding.
Funding is ***extremely*** limited and preference will be given to
people that *follow instructions*.

<span style="color:red">\*NOTE CHANGE\*</span> As of 18 January, 2011 we
have maxed out all the funds we have available for attendees (from OWASP
foundation funds and from the chapters themselves), if more funding is
received via corporate or individual donations from now until the time
of the Summit we will contact those listed on the [Summit attendees
seeking funds
list](Summit_2011_Attendee#Confirmed_Summit_Attendees:_Seeking_Funds.2FSponsorship "wikilink").

## Logistical Guidelines and Expectations for OWASP-Sponsored Attendees

  - OWASP funded attendees are assumed to be arriving either Monday,
    February 7th or Tuesday, February 8th and departing on Friday,
    February 11th. Note that based on availability of flights, this may
    result in the attendee missing part of the Summit on Tuesday or
    Friday.
  - OWASP funded attendees can expect to have the following items
    included in their sponsorship:

<!-- end list -->

1.  Flights to/from the Summit (see restrictions on ticketing below),
2.  Transportation to/from the airport,
3.  Shared Accommodations for 3 or 4 nights in Villa-style suites each
    containing two or three bedrooms. The bedrooms will contain multiple
    beds and attendees will be expected to share rooms with other
    attendees. One of the bedrooms may have one double bed, in which
    case one of the two people assigned to that room will be asked to
    sleep on the sofa. Each villa has a common area living room and
    kitchenette which can be used to socialize and collaborate.
4.  Breakfast, Lunch, Dinner, and Coffee Breaks during the days of the
    Summit (Tuesday, February 7th through Friday, February 11th)

<!-- end list -->

  - OWASP's Expectations for Sponsored Attendees:
      - Will be asked to participate in OWASP outreach activities with
        JavaRanch
      - Will be expected to act as a leader or secretary of one or more
        working sessions
      - Since some of the villas will require an occupant to sleep on
        the sofa, we expect that sponsored attendees will volunteer for
        this "duty" so that no attendees that pay their own way have to
        sleep on the sofa.
  - Due to the limited funds we have available this year for sponsoring
    attendees, OWASP will only pay the amount of the cheapest flights
    to/from the Summit. Therefore, while it may be somewhat inconvenient
    to attendee to have a non-direct flight, fly on a non-preferred
    airline, or come a day early/stay a day late, we are asking you to
    be respectful of this guideline when booking your flight. If you
    prefer a different (more expensive flight), we ask that you cover
    the cost difference yourself. See details below.

### Ticket Combination Guidelines

Depending on how long the sponsored attendee is staying, OWASP will pay
for the appropriate ticket combination.

  - For an attendee staying 3 nights, OWASP will sponsor the Participant
    Ticket + 3-Nights Shared Accommodation.
  - For an attendee staying 4 nights, OWASP will sponsor the Participant
    Ticket + 4-Nights Shared Accommodation.
  - Any remaining amount based on the chosen ticket combination,
    including costs of companions, will be charged to the attendee.

![REGISTER_NOW_244.jpg](REGISTER_NOW_244.jpg "REGISTER_NOW_244.jpg")

### Airfare Guidelines

<span style="color:red">\*NOTE CHANGE\*</span>

  - As of 10 January, 2011 responsibility for booking flights to the
    Summit has migrated from Diplomata to Sarah Baso. *' All OWASP
    sponsored attendees need to contact [Sarah
    Baso](mailto:sarah.baso@owasp.org) for flight arrangements.*'
  - Sarah will search for the cheapest flight from the attendee’s home
    airport to Lisbon arriving Monday (February 7th) or Tuesday
    (February 8th) and departing Friday (February 11th). The cheapest
    available flight serves as the baseline for the attendee’s airfare.
  - Sarah will then search for flights that depart on Saturday or
    Sunday. If flights available on Saturday or Sunday are significantly
    cheaper than the baseline airfare, the attendee may be asked to stay
    additional nights based on the Friday/Saturday Night Guidelines. If
    the attendee would like to choose a different flight, the attendee
    must pay the difference.

### Friday Night Guidelines

If the difference in cost between the Saturday flight and the baseline
flight is significantly greater than the cost of one night’s
accommodation at Campo Real, then the attendee will be asked to depart
on Saturday’s flight. In these instances, Friday night’s accommodations
at Campo Real will be paid for by OWASP for the sponsored attendee. If
the sponsored attendee has a companion, the extra charge for the
companion will be €50 EUR (which the attendee or companion will have to
pay for themselves). If the attendee would prefer to depart on Friday,
the attendee must pay the difference in airfare.

### Saturday Night Guidelines

If the difference in cost between the Sunday flight and the baseline
flight is significantly greater than the cost of *two* night’s
accommodation at Campo Real, then the attendee will be asked to depart
on Sunday’s flight. In these instances, Friday and Saturday night’s
accommodations at Campo Real will be paid for by OWASP for the sponsored
attendee. If the sponsored attendee has a companion, the extra charge
for the companion will be €100 EUR (which the attendee or companion will
have to pay themselves). If the attendee would prefer to depart on
Friday, the attendee must pay the difference in airfare.

### Early Arrival Guidelines

The same rules/guidelines used for booking and paying for flights
departing on Saturday or Sunday should be used for flights arriving a
day or two early. If the cost difference to arrive on either Saturday or
Sunday (instead of the baseline flight), is significantly greater than
the cost of one or two nights accommodation at Campo Real, then the
attendee will be asked to arrive on Saturday or Sunday. In these
instances, Saturday and Sunday nights’ accommodations for the sponsored
attendee will be paid for by OWASP. If the sponsored attendee has a
companion, the extra charge for the companion will be €50 EUR per night
(which the attendee or companion will have to pay themselves). If the
attendee would prefer to depart on Friday, the attendee must pay the
difference in airfare. If the attendee would prefer to arrive on a
different day, the attendee must pay the difference in airfare.

[Category:Summit_2011](Category:Summit_2011 "wikilink")