<noinclude>[Back to main Summit 2011 page](Summit_2011 "wikilink")
</noinclude>

The OWASP Global Summit is *the* place where application security
experts meet to discuss plans, projects and solutions for the future of
application security. The Summit is *not* a conference - there are no
talks or training seminars - this is an opportunity to do **actual
work** to further the field of application security. Participants will
stay in shared accommodations and collaborate to produce tangible
progress towards influencing standards, establishing roadmaps, and
setting the tone for OWASP and application security for the coming
years.

The Summit will consist of [working
sessions](Summit_2011_Working_Sessions "wikilink") across a variety of
topics set by our community. Participants are free to attend any working
session, but we encourage everyone to select working sessions for topics
where they have the most to contribute.

Anyone can attend the Summit\! OWASP community members, application
security experts, industry players, and developers are all welcome at
the Summit. If you would like to receive a personalized invitation for
yourself or another person, see the [promotional
materials](Summit_2011_Promotional_Materials "wikilink") page.

### Last Summit

This OWASP Global Summit is following the same model used at the [OWASP
EU Summit 08](OWASP_EU_Summit_2008 "wikilink") which also took place in
Portugal and gathered over 80 application security experts from over 20
countries. A smaller [Summit 2009](Summit_2009 "wikilink") was organized
together with the AppSec US conference.