<noinclude>![Image:Summit_banner_ad.jpg](Summit_banner_ad.jpg
"Image:Summit_banner_ad.jpg")
[**Back to main Summit 2011 page**](Summit_2011 "wikilink") </noinclude>

# Costs

|  |
|  |
|  |
|  |
|  |
|  |
|  |

The total cost for ***most*** attendees will be **€590 EUR or $800 USD**
(Summit Participant Ticket + 4 Nights Shared Accommodation). Shared
accommodations will be contained in multi-room villas which hold between
four and six persons. You should expect to share a room in these villas
- in fact, the shared experience has been cited as the most fun and
beneficial part of the previous Summit.

A more detailed price chart with variations based on how many nights you
will be staying, whether you want shared or private accommodations, and
whether you have a companion is [available
below](Summit_2011_Reservations#Cost_Details "wikilink").

# Tickets

Summit Participant Tickets are tickets for individual participants and
include the meals listed below during each day of the Summit. Individual
participants should also select their preferred accommodations (shared
or private).

Individual participants may also bring companions who are not
participating in the Summit. Participants with companions ***must***
reserve private accommodations and purchase the Summit Companion Ticket.
The Summit Companion Ticket covers the meals each day for the companion
and the additional fees for an appropriate private room for both the
participant and companion.

<span style="color:red">\*NOTE CHANGE\*</span> As of 10 January 2011,
all Summit Tickets ***must*** be purchased through the [RegOnline
System](http://www.regonline.com/owasp_global_summit_2011). OWASP
Sponsored attendees **must** contact [Sarah
Baso](mailto:sarah.baso@owasp.org) for a coupon code before going to
[RegOnline](http://www.regonline.com/owasp_global_summit_2011) to get
their Summit Ticket and book their accommodations. For help regarding
the RegOnline System, contact [Kate
Hartmann](mailto:kate.hartmann@owasp.org). Please note if you previously
booked your Summit Ticket, accommodations, or flight through Diplomata
Tours, we still have your reservation and you **'DO NOT**' need to
re-register.

![REGISTER_NOW_244.jpg](REGISTER_NOW_244.jpg "REGISTER_NOW_244.jpg")

## Included Meals

The following meals are included each day of the Summit for Summit
Participant and Companion Tickets:

  - Morning Coffee Break
  - Lunch (consisting of pack of a sandwich, bag of chips, yogurt,
    fruit, cake, and soft drink or mineral water)
  - Afternoon Coffee Break
  - Dinner (buffet style with beverages)

If you are staying at Campo Real, 3 meals per day as well as 2 coffee
breaks will be provided (Tuesday through Friday) If you are not staying
at Campo Real and purchased only a Summit Participant Ticket, only 2
meals per day (lunch and dinner) and 2 coffee breaks will be provided.

# Accommodations

Shared Accommodations will be villa-style suites each containing two or
three bedrooms. The bedrooms will contain multiple beds and attendees
will be expected to share rooms with other attendees. Each villa has a
common area living room and kitchenette which can be used to socialize
and collaborate. Private Accommodations will be a single hotel room
containing one bed.

In addition, breakfast is included with all accommodation packages.

If you wish to arrive early at Campo Real or stay after the Summit is
over, you are more than welcome. The extra night rates are €67 EUR for a
single (with breakfast) and €127 EUR for a couple (with breakfast).

As of 10 January 2011, accommodations ***must*** be booked through the
[RegOnline System](http://www.regonline.com/owasp_global_summit_2011)
instead of Diplomata Tours. Also, do *not* book directly with the Campo
Real Resort.

# Reservation Process

<span style="color:red">\*NOTE CHANGE\*</span> Attendees should purchase
Summit Tickets and reserve accommodations through the [RegOnline
System](http://www.regonline.com/owasp_global_summit_2011). All OWASP
Sponsored attendees **must** contact [Sarah
Baso](mailto:sarah.baso@owasp.org) for a coupon code before going to
RegOnline to get their Summit Ticket and book their accommodations. For
help regarding the RegOnline System, contact [Kate
Hartmann](mailto:kate.hartmann@owasp.org).

Attendees should arrange for their own airfare, **unless they are being
funded by OWASP**, in which case the attendee ***must*** book their
airfare through [Sarah Baso](mailto:sarah.baso@owasp.org). Attendees
arranging their own air travel should send their flight itinerary to
Lorna, Sarah or Jason so that we can arrange airport transfers to the
Summit venue.

![REGISTER_NOW_244.jpg](REGISTER_NOW_244.jpg "REGISTER_NOW_244.jpg")

# Cost Details

While we encourage all participants to stay in shared accommodations, we
recognize that not all participants will be comfortable sharing
accommodations. Individual hotel rooms with single beds are available at
an additional cost. The typical total cost for single attendees desiring
these private accommodations will be **€664 EUR** (Summit Participant
Ticket + 4 Nights Private Accommodation).

Participants that wish to bring a companion **must** stay in private
accommodations and the companion will cost an additional €404 EUR for a
typical grand total of **€1068 EUR** (Summit Participant Ticket + Summit
Companion Ticket + 4-Nights Private Accommodation).

|  |
|  |
|  |
|  |
|  |
|  |
|  |
|  |
|  |
|  |
|  |
|  |
|  |
|  |

[PDF](Media:2011GlobalSummitPricing.pdf "wikilink") or [Google Docs
version](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1fVQX7o8y-mduiwyCNmB4c5cniedlvSYdAJv5uQ_EvqA/edit?hl=en&authkey=CLi52Ng)
of pricing table on OWASP Global Summit Letterhead.

<noinclude></noinclude><noinclude>__FORCETOC__</noinclude>

[Category:Summit_2011](Category:Summit_2011 "wikilink")