\-- PLEASE ADD BIOS IN ABC ORDER BY SURNAME USING THE TEMPLATE BELOW:

## Surname, Given-name

<div align="left" style="float: left; margin: 0 4px 0 0; padding: 4px; border: 1px solid #aaa;">

![PicComingSoon.jpg](PicComingSoon.jpg "PicComingSoon.jpg")

</div>

<div style=“text-align:justify”>

Enter bio here.

</div>


\--\>

[**Back to Attendee List**](Summit_2011_Attendee "wikilink") | [**Back
to main Summit 2011 page**](Summit_2011 "wikilink")

*Add* a bio using the *page* edit link; *change* a bio using the
*section* edit link.

## Adamski, Lucas

<div align="left" style="float: left; margin: 0 4px 0 0; padding: 4px; border: 1px solid #aaa;">

![Adamski,_Lucas.png](Adamski,_Lucas.png "Adamski,_Lucas.png")

</div>

<div style=“text-align:justify”>

Lucas Adamski heads up the product security team at Mozilla, works on
security architecture and features, and generally tries to make the
Internet a happier and safer place. Previously, Lucas was a Security
Architect at Adobe focused on Flash Player and AIR. He also worked at
@stake and developed security managed services software at Breakwater
Security.

</div>



## Agarwal, Anurag

<div align="left" style="float: left; margin: 0 4px 0 0; padding: 4px; border: 1px solid #aaa;">

![Agarwal,_Anurag.png](Agarwal,_Anurag.png "Agarwal,_Anurag.png")

</div>

<div style=“text-align:justify”>

Anurag Agarwal, the founder of MyAppSecurity, has proven record in
providing customers with solutions related to security risk management.
Anurag is a former Director of Education Services at WhiteHat Security
and has over 15 years of experience designing, developing, managing and
securing web applications with companies like Citigroup, Cisco, HSBC
Bank, and GE Medical Systems to name a few. He is an active contributor
to the web application security field and has written several articles
on secure design and coding for online magazines. A frequent speaker on
web application security at various conferences, Anurag is actively
involved with organizations such as the WASC (Web Application Security
Consortium) and OWASP (Open Web Application Security Project). He
started the project on Web Application Security Scanner Evaluation
Criteria and is currently a project leader for OWASP developer’s guide
and OWASP Common Vulnerability List.

</div>



## Aguilera, Vicente

<div align="left" style="float: left; margin: 0 4px 0 0; padding: 4px; border: 1px solid #aaa;">

![Aguilera,_Vicente.png](Aguilera,_Vicente.png "Aguilera,_Vicente.png")

</div>

<div style=“text-align:justify”>

Born in Badalona (Spain), Vicente is the OWASP Spain Chapter Leader,
co-founder of Internet Security Auditors and member of the Technical
Advisory Board in the RedSeguridad magazine. He is an enthusiastic of
the application security, a regular speaker at industry conferences and
has published several articles and vulnerabilities in specialized media.

</div>



## Agustini, Alexandre

<div align="left" style="float: left; margin: 0 4px 0 0; padding: 4px; border: 1px solid #aaa;">

![Agustini,_Alexandre.png](Agustini,_Alexandre.png
"Agustini,_Alexandre.png")

</div>

<div style=“text-align:justify”>

I am senior lecturer and currently academic coordinator of Informatics
Faculty at the Catholic University of Rio Grande do Sul (PUCRS). I have
a Ph.D. in Computer Science from Universidade Nova de Lisboa (2006) and
my primary research interest is in Natural Language Processing, acting
on the following topics: text mining, machine learning, syntactic and
semantic analysis of natural language.

</div>



## Akhmad, Zaki

<div align="left" style="float: left; margin: 0 4px 0 0; padding: 4px; border: 1px solid #aaa;">

![Akhmad,_Zaki.png](Akhmad,_Zaki.png "Akhmad,_Zaki.png")

</div>

<div style=“text-align:justify”>

Born in Jakarta, Indonesia, 1982, Zaki holds a master degree from
Bandung Institute of Technology, Indonesia, with major Electrical
Engineering. Currently he works at indocisc, a small consultant company
focus on information security, as a Junior Security Analyst. On
professional certification, he had passed the CISA exam which he took on
June 2010. He has lead the OWASP Indonesia Chapter since December 2008.
The first translation project completed by OWASP Indonesia Chapter team
is the Top 10 OWASP 2010. He enjoys very much working on information
security industry. On the leisure time, Zaki loves reading, writing,
listening to music and for some time taking photos. He also enjoy
sports, especially running and swimming. He can be contact at za at
owasp dot org.

</div>



## Alamri, Lorna

<div align="left" style="float: left; margin: 0 4px 0 0; padding: 4px; border: 1px solid #aaa;">

![Alamri,_Lorna.png](Alamri,_Lorna.png "Alamri,_Lorna.png")

</div>

<div style=“text-align:justify”>

Lorna is a consultant at a large financial institution and resides in
Minneapolis, Minnesota, USA. She is Vice President of the Minneapolis
OWASP Chapter, a member of the Global Industry Committee, Editor of the
OWASP Newsletter, and a member of the Summit Planning Committee.

</div>



## AlBasha, Talal

<div align="left" style="float: left; margin: 0 4px 0 0; padding: 4px; border: 1px solid #aaa;">

![AlBasha,_Talal.png](AlBasha,_Talal.png "AlBasha,_Talal.png")

</div>

<div style=“text-align:justify”>

Application Development Management, Application Security Consultation
(GWAPT Certified) Alremh company at ICT Incubator Product Manager at
Innovaive Solutions

Riyadh,Saudi Arabia OWASP Involvement: Syria Chapter Leader Past •
Presenter for Internet Security at ITDigest • Senior Developer at King
Faisal Specialist Hospital • Senior Developer at KFSHRC Education •
Damascus University • SANS Summary Portal Development with J2EE
technology IBM Websphere portal server, application server (with
clustering) Bea Weblogic SMS, MMS and Mobile Banking projects
Application Security (SANS GIAC standards, OWASP standards, (ISC)2 CSSLP
standards) GWAPT Certified

Specialties: J2EE, Websphere clustering, Weblogic, JBoss, Struts, JSF
SMS, MMS, Mobile Banking SMS Gateway Application Security

</div>



## Angal, Rajeev

<div align="left" style="float: left; margin: 0 4px 0 0; padding: 4px; border: 1px solid #aaa;">

![Angal,_Rajeev.png](Angal,_Rajeev.png "Angal,_Rajeev.png")

</div>

<div style=“text-align:justify”>

Rajeev currently works as an Architect at Oracle (Sun Microsystems) and
lives in the San Francisco Bay Area, California, USA. Past • Founder &
VP Engineering at Intellifabric Inc • Director of Technology at
Infospace Inc • Architect, Portal Server at SUN Microsystems Education •
University of California, Santa Cruz • IIT Delhi • Delhi Public School -
R. K. Puram

</div>



## Aniceto, Alexandre

<div align="left" style="float: left; margin: 0 4px 0 0; padding: 4px; border: 1px solid #aaa;">

![Aniceto,_Alexandre.png](Aniceto,_Alexandre.png
"Aniceto,_Alexandre.png")

</div>

<div style=“text-align:justify”>

Information Security Consultant, CISSP, CISM, CISA, ISO27001/LA Partner
at Willway, S.A.; Lisbon Area, Portugal Past Senior Security Consultant
at Glintt Security Advisor at Archeocelis, Lda Security & Systems
Engineer at Nokia Siemens Networks Education Royal Holloway, U. of
London , (ISC)² , ISACA - Information Systems Audit and Control
Association Specialties: Information Security Management Security
Architecture Design & Implementation Auditing and Regulatory Compliance

</div>



## Aryavalli, Gandhi

<div align="left" style="float: left; margin: 0 4px 0 0; padding: 4px; border: 1px solid #aaa;">

![Aryavalli,_Gandhi.png](Aryavalli,_Gandhi.png "Aryavalli,_Gandhi.png")

</div>

<div style=“text-align:justify”>

Having Honors in Engineering (CS & Mech. Engg.) enriched by MBA
(finance), have been working in Information Security space for the last
10+ years in the fields of Application Security, State Assessment, Data
cum Network Security, Security Governance and Compliance areas.
Currently part of McAfee family for the last 5+ years, providing
technical expertise and support in the performance of architecture and
application risk assessments for IT developed applications and third
party solutions, review of applications for security vulnerabilities,
perform penetration tests and enforcing Secure QA cum Coding practices.
Key achievements include providing technical support to Department of
Defence to install a Common Criteria lab in India for the first time,
and established Vulnerability Accessment Center as per SSE-CMM
Guidelines. Providing organisation wide trainings and conducting secure
code reviews, as a Secure Core Team member of McAfee. Has played a key
role in Application security in various CMM companies like Microsoft
(v-id), Mahindra BT..etc.

</div>



## Barbato, L. Gustavo C.

<div align="left" style="float: left; margin: 0 4px 0 0; padding: 4px; border: 1px solid #aaa;">

![Barbato,_L._Gustavo_C..png](Barbato,_L._Gustavo_C..png
"Barbato,_L._Gustavo_C..png")

</div>

<div style=“text-align:justify”>

Gustavo is Ph.D. (application security) and M.Sc. (intrusion detection)
in Information System Security as well as Bachelor in Computer Science.
He has worked in security projects for the Brazilian Government for many
years involving software programming, network and systems
administration, computer and network security, application and network
penetration testing, software security assessments, code review, malware
analysis, intrusion detection, forensics analysis and others activities.
During that time, he has also worked as security professor at college
and postgraduate by teaching subjects about network and information
security. In the beginning, he used to work as software developer and
system administrator. However, the last years were dedicated to security
consulting on areas aforesaid. Nowadays, he is the Technical Application
Security Lead at Dell and Secure Programming Professor at UNISINOS
University. As voluntary work, he is the Porto Alegre (Brazil) OWASP
Chapter Founder/Leader and member of OWASP Global Chapter Committee.

</div>



## Barnett, Ryan

<div align="left" style="float: left; margin: 0 4px 0 0; padding: 4px; border: 1px solid #aaa;">

![Barnett,_Ryan.png](Barnett,_Ryan.png "Barnett,_Ryan.png")

</div>

<div style=“text-align:justify”>

Ryan Barnett is a Senior Security Researcher at Trustwave. He is a
member of Trustwave's SpiderLabs -the advanced security team focused on
penetration testing, incident response, and application security where
he focuses on web application defensive research and serves as the
ModSecurity web application firewall project lead. In addition to his
work at Trustwave, Ryan is also a SANS Institute certified instructor
and a member of both the Top 20 Vulnerabilities and CWE/SANS Top 25 Most
Dangerous Programming Errors teams. He is also a Web Application
Security Consortium (WASC) Member where he leads the Web Hacking
Incidents Database (WHID) and Distributed Web Honeypots Projects, as
well as, the OWASP ModSecurity Core Rule Set (CRS) project leader. Mr.
Barnett has also authored a Web security book for Addison/Wesley
Publishing entitled Preventing Web Attacks with Apache and is a frequent
speaker at industry conferences such as Blackhat and OWASP.

</div>



## Baso, Sarah

<div align="left" style="float: left; margin: 0 4px 0 0; padding: 4px; border: 1px solid #aaa;">

![Baso,_Sarah.png](Baso,_Sarah.png "Baso,_Sarah.png")

</div>

<div style=“text-align:justify”>

Sarah is a licensed attorney living in Minneapolis, Minnesota, USA. She
currently works as a teacher for at risk youth (grades 5-8) at an after
school and summer kids program, in addition to volunteering at an ESL
school that provides English, computer, math, and citizenship classes to
immigrants and refugees. Most recently, Sarah has been involved with
OWASP, providing logistical support, travel planning and wiki foo for
the Global Summit and serving as the secretary for the Global Industry
Committee.

</div>



## Batista, Marco

<div align="left" style="float: left; margin: 0 4px 0 0; padding: 4px; border: 1px solid #aaa;">

![Batista,_Marco.png](Batista,_Marco.png "Batista,_Marco.png")

</div>

<div style=“text-align:justify”>

Marco is a 26 year old from Portugal with a Network and Communications
Engineer degree. He has worked for 2 years in Carrier Sales Support /
Customer Premises Equipment (CPE) Broadband Access (xDSL, FTTH), and is
currently taking a MSc in Information Security.

</div>



## Bergling, Mattias

<div align="left" style="float: left; margin: 0 4px 0 0; padding: 4px; border: 1px solid #aaa;">

![Bergling,_Mattias.png](Bergling,_Mattias.png "Bergling,_Mattias.png")

</div>

<div style=“text-align:justify”>

Mattias Bergling works as a Senior Security Consultant at 2Secure in
Stockholm, Sweden. Mattias has been working with IT security for 12
years and has been focusing on security testing for the last 8 years.
Mattias is the co-leader for the Swedish OWASP chapter and was on the
Organizing Committee for AppSec EU 2010.

</div>



## Bernik, Joe

<div align="left" style="float: left; margin: 0 4px 0 0; padding: 4px; border: 1px solid #aaa;">

![Bernik,_Joe.png](Bernik,_Joe.png "Bernik,_Joe.png")

</div>

<div style=“text-align:justify”>

Mr. Bernik is the Chief Information Security Officer for Fifth Third
Bank, responsible for protecting Fifth Third Bank and its clients’
information systems from risks. He is also responsible for defining and
implementing Enterprise-wide information security strategies for the
Bank. Mr. Bernik has more than 16 years of experience as a risk
professional. He has developed risk management practices, procedures and
standards for several Fortune 100 companies including several global
banking organizations. Prior to his role at Fifth Third Bank, Mr. Bernik
served in roles including Director of Operational Risk at the Royal Bank
of Scotland and Chief Information Security Officer of ABN AMRO, and its
subsidiary, LaSalle Bank. Mr. Bernik received his bachelor’s degree from
the University of Mary Washington in Fredericksburg, Virginia, and
completed graduate work in business administration at the City
University of New York. Mr. Bernik currently serves as an advisor to the
Federal Reserve on matters of information security and is on the
steering committee of the Financial Services Sharing and Analysis Center
(FS-ISAC).

</div>



## Biagiotti, Massimo

<div align="left" style="float: left; margin: 0 4px 0 0; padding: 4px; border: 1px solid #aaa;">

![Biagiotti,_Massimo.png](Biagiotti,_Massimo.png
"Biagiotti,_Massimo.png")

</div>

<div style=“text-align:justify”>

Project Manager and Business Developer of consulting activities for
network and application security analyses concerning Ethical Hacking,
Secure Software Development Lyfecycle, Security Processes, Risk Analyses
and Business Impact Analyses. Since 2009 is also responsible of the
Internship Program of Business-e.

</div>



## Bonver, Edward

<div align="left" style="float: left; margin: 0 4px 0 0; padding: 4px; border: 1px solid #aaa;">

![Bonver,_Edward.png](Bonver,_Edward.png "Bonver,_Edward.png")

</div>

<div style=“text-align:justify”>

Edward Bonver is a principal software engineer on the product security
team under the Office of the CTO at Symantec Corporation. In this
capacity, Edward is responsible for working with software developers and
quality assurance (QA) professionals across Symantec to continuously
enhance the company’s software security practices through the adoption
of methodologies, procedures and tools for secure coding and security
testing. Within Symantec, Edward teaches secure coding and security
testing classes for Symantec engineers, and also leads the company’s QA
Security Task Force, which he founded. Prior to joining Symantec, Edward
held software engineering and QA roles at Digital Equipment Corporation,
Nbase and Zuma Networks. Edward is a Certified Information Systems
Security Professional (CISSP) and a Certified Secure Software Lifecycle
Professional (CSSLP). He holds a master’s degree in computer science
from California State University, Northridge, and a bachelor’s degree in
computer science from Rochester Institute of Technology. Edward is a
Ph.D. student at NOVA Southeastern University.

</div>



## Booth, Rex

<div align="left" style="float: left; margin: 0 4px 0 0; padding: 4px; border: 1px solid #aaa;">

![Booth,_Rex.png](Booth,_Rex.png "Booth,_Rex.png")

</div>

<div style=“text-align:justify”>

Rex is a Senior Manager in Grant Thornton’s Public Sector practice and
leads their Cybersecurity Solution group. He has over ten years of
experience providing application development, risk management and
information security services to government agencies, private industry,
and financial institutions.

Since joining Grant Thornton, Rex has led various information security
and risk management engagements including FISMA, IV\&V, SOX, and OMB
A-123 engagements as well as identity management and system
certification and accreditation efforts. During his tenure at previous
employers, Rex designed and developed complex distributed web-based
applications. As a member of a managed security services team performing
research and development, he co-architected and implemented a scalable
information detection and prevention information aggregation solution
for use in a real-time 24/7 information security monitoring system,
correlating and reporting on thousands of devices. He has presented on
the topic of information security and assessment methodologies to
various institutions and is currently a global committee member for the
Open Web Application Security Project (OWASP).

</div>



## Brennan, Tom

<div align="left" style="float: left; margin: 0 4px 0 0; padding: 4px; border: 1px solid #aaa;">

![Brennan,_Tom.png](Brennan,_Tom.png "Brennan,_Tom.png")

</div>

<div style=“text-align:justify”>

Brennan started with technology in 1986 when 8-bit and CP/M was cool
<grin>. After a career ending injury with United States Marines Corps.,
during Gulf War I Era he has dedicated his life to information security.
Was elected and served with the FBI Infragard program 2002-2004 and then
founded the OWASP New Jersey Chapter that today includes NYC Metro. In
2007 Brennan was appointed by his application security peers to the
OWASP Global Board of Directors. Tom was the managing partner of
Proactive Risk that routinely assessed technology, people and process
used in finance, e-commerce, oil/gas, power generation/transmission,
water, and global enterprise networks before joining Trustwave
Spiderlabs in 2011. A father of 4 great kids and is a frequent and
entertaining speaker at information security conferences and bars around
the world ;)

</div>



## Brewer, Deb

<div align="left" style="float: left; margin: 0 4px 0 0; padding: 4px; border: 1px solid #aaa;">

![Brewer,_Deb.png](Brewer,_Deb.png "Brewer,_Deb.png")

</div>

<div style=“text-align:justify”>

LXstudios Inc., Owner/Director Deb has provided branding, corporate
identity and collateral design solutions to institutional and retail
clients for over twenty years. On a Fine Arts Scholarship, she obtained
a bachelor of Fine Arts in Graphic Design with a Minor in Professional
Writing from Carnegie Mellon University in Pittsburgh, PA. She began her
career as a Senior Designer in the Creative Services department at
Thomson Financial in Boston, MA. After Thomson, Deb became a partner at
Patric Ward Design in Boston, managing accounts such as Janus
Institutional, Reebok, Standard & Poor’s, and Thomson Financial. In
1999, Deb opened LXstudios, providing branding, corporate identity,
print collateral, advertising, web and event support to financial
services, medical, technology, management consulting, mortgage/banking
and retail clients.

</div>



## Bristow, Mark

<div align="left" style="float: left; margin: 0 4px 0 0; padding: 4px; border: 1px solid #aaa;">

![Bristow,_Mark.png](Bristow,_Mark.png "Bristow,_Mark.png")

</div>

<div style=“text-align:justify”>

Mark Bristow works as an Industrial Control Systems (ICS/SCADA) Security
consultant with Securicon LLC for a US Government client. Before getting
involved with ICS, Mark was heavily involved in web application
vulnerability research, penetration testing and building application
security programs as a consultant with SRA International. Mark is an
active member of the Open Web Application Security Project (OWASP) as
Global Conferences Committee Chair, AppSec DC Organizer, and Co-Chair of
the OWASP DC chapter.

</div>



## Brzozowski, Daniel

<div align="left" style="float: left; margin: 0 4px 0 0; padding: 4px; border: 1px solid #aaa;">

![Brzozowski,_Daniel.png](Brzozowski,_Daniel.png
"Brzozowski,_Daniel.png")

</div>

<div style=“text-align:justify”>

Daniel is a web security enthusiast with broad knowledge in web
applications development and web security. He has been working in
banking and financial industry for the last few years. He is doing his
Masters Degree in Artificial Intelligence at Warsaw University of
Technology. He is currently working on his final master’s thesis, whose
title is “Web Application Penetration Tests”. Right now he is based in
London, UK and works for a worldwide financial company. His interests
covers all aspects of web security, web development and public speaking.
In his free time he enjoys practicing Krav Maga, listening to music and
following Web Security news.

</div>



## Buetler, Ivan

<div align="left" style="float: left; margin: 0 4px 0 0; padding: 4px; border: 1px solid #aaa;">

![Buetler,_Ivan.png](Buetler,_Ivan.png "Buetler,_Ivan.png")

</div>

<div style=“text-align:justify”>

Founder and CEO, Compass Security AG (since 1999) Founder of Swiss Cyber
Storm Security Conference (since 2007) Founder of Hacking-Lab community
site / Alias E1 (since 2006) Founder and board member of Cyber Tycoons
foundation (since 2010) Board member Information Security Society
Swizerland ISSS (since 2010) Member /ch/open foundation. After
completing his degree in Electrical Engineering at the Technical College
of Rapperswil focusing on computer science, control technology,
electronics, energy engineering, and motion technology, Ivan Buetler
worked for 2 years in St.Gallen at AGI Service, a company which provides
services for banks. He provided plans for high-availability Unix and NT
server systems including, among other things, a platform for the stock
market and foreign exchange dealers based on Reuters, Bloomberg and FIMS
(Telekurs). Afterwards, while working for 3r security engineering
ag/Entrust Technologies, Ivan supported security consultants in
technical matters, analysed clients' technical problems, local network
and computer systems throughout Europe. This security work included
penetration tests, security reviews, the development of secure
architectures, Internet and Intranet security, as well as security
solutions for e-Commerce. In particular, he was involved in the
cross-certification of the Canadian Entrust PKI with Europe. During
these activities he completed post-graduate studies at the Management
School of St.Gallen/Zurich in Business Management.

</div>



## Calderon, Juan Carlos

<div align="left" style="float: left; margin: 0 4px 0 0; padding: 4px; border: 1px solid #aaa;">

![Calderon,_Juan_Carlos.png](Calderon,_Juan_Carlos.png
"Calderon,_Juan_Carlos.png")

</div>

<div style=“text-align:justify”>

Juan currently works as Application Security Research Leader/Sr Auditor
at Softtek and lives in the Aguascalientes Area, Mexico. Prior to this
he was a Project Leader at Softtek, as well as a Sr Application Security
Auditor and Sr Web Developer at Soft tek. Juan also worked as a Web
Application Security Specialist and Web Developmer at GE DDEMESIS and as
the IT Manager at Gabatti. Juan received his education from the
Instituto Tecnológico y de Estudios Superiores de Monterrey and the
Instituto Tecnológico de Zacatecas. Juan Specializes in: Application
Security, Security Source Code Review, Vulnerability assessments,
security trends analysis, Penetration Testing, Secure SDLC, App Sec
consultancy.

</div>



## Campbell, David

<div align="left" style="float: left; margin: 0 4px 0 0; padding: 4px; border: 1px solid #aaa;">

![Campbell,_David.png](Campbell,_David.png "Campbell,_David.png")

</div>

<div style=“text-align:justify”>

Founder and Principal Consultant, Electric Alchemy DC has been immersed
in technology since elementary school. Early experiences with Microsoft
Flight Simulator on an 4.77MHz 8086 IBM got him interested in computers
as well as aviation. Campbell went on to become a well respected figure
in the information security community as well as a FAA certificated
pilot. DC joined Andersen Consulting after graduating from University
and his aptitude for hacking quickly led him to the forefront of the
Firm's then nascent information security practice. At Andersen, Campbell
worked as a security architect for a series of high profile projects
while simultaneously providing penetration testing expertise on short
engagements all over the world. Since founding EA Campbell has embraced
application security and mobile security and continues to be involved in
the community. DC leads the Denver chapter of the Open Web Application
Security Project and organizes the successful annual FROC application
security conferences.

</div>



## Casey, Larry

<div align="left" style="float: left; margin: 0 4px 0 0; padding: 4px; border: 1px solid #aaa;">

![PicComingSoon.jpg](PicComingSoon.jpg "PicComingSoon.jpg")

</div>

<div style=“text-align:justify”>

Director of IT, OWASP.

</div>



## Causey, Brad

<div align="left" style="float: left; margin: 0 4px 0 0; padding: 4px; border: 1px solid #aaa;">

![Causey,_Brad.png](Causey,_Brad.png "Causey,_Brad.png")

</div>

<div style=“text-align:justify”>

Brad Causey is an active member of the security and forensics community
worldwide. Brad tends to focus his time on Web Application security as
it applies to global and enterprise arenas. He is currently employed at
a major international financial institution as a security analyst. Brad
is the President of the OWASP Alabama chapter, a member of the OWASP
Global Projects Committee and a contributor to the OWASP Live CD. He is
also the President of the International Information Systems Forensics
Association chapter in Alabama. Brad is an avid author and writer with
hundreds of publications and several books. Brad currently holds
certifications in the following arenas: MCSA, MCDBA, MCSE, MCT, MCP,
GBLC, GGSC100, C |EH, CIFI, CCNA,IT Project Management+, Security+, A+,
Network+, CISSP, CGSP.

</div>



## Chalmers, Matthew

<div align="left" style="float: left; margin: 0 4px 0 0; padding: 4px; border: 1px solid #aaa;">

![Chalmers,_Matthew.jpg](Chalmers,_Matthew.jpg "Chalmers,_Matthew.jpg")

</div>

<div style=“text-align:justify”>

Matthew Chalmers has been doing information security and related work
his entire professional career, since earning his bachelor's degree from
the Missouri University of Science & Technology. Matt has worked for
large organizations in the defense, financial and manufacturing
industries including the US Navy, the National Security Agency, JPMorgan
Chase and, presently, Rockwell Automation. Matt currently performs risk,
threat, control and vulnerability assessments; regulatory &
policy/standard compliance audits; process improvement audits; and
general & application control audits. Matt holds the CISA, GSNA, GCFA,
CEH and CHS certifications and is ITIL v3 Foundation certified. Matt has
been involved with OWASP since about 2002 and can be reached at matthew
dot chalmers at owasp dot org.

</div>



## Chandra, Pravir

<div align="left" style="float: left; margin: 0 4px 0 0; padding: 4px; border: 1px solid #aaa;">

![PicComingSoon.jpg](PicComingSoon.jpg "PicComingSoon.jpg")

</div>

<div style=“text-align:justify”>

Pravir Chandra is Director of Strategic Services at Fortify where he
leads software security assurance programs for Fortune 500 clients in a
variety of verticals. He is responsible for standing up the most
comprehensive and measurably effective programs in existence today.
Creator and leader of the Open Software Assurance Maturity Model
(OpenSAMM) project, Pravir also works extensively with OWASP and on
other open projects to promote effective application security practices.
As a thought leader in the security field for over 10 years, Pravir has
written many articles, whitepapers, and books and is routinely invited
to speak at businesses and conferences world-wide.

</div>



## Cheng, Steven

<div align="left" style="float: left; margin: 0 4px 0 0; padding: 4px; border: 1px solid #aaa;">

![PicComingSoon.jpg](PicComingSoon.jpg "PicComingSoon.jpg")

</div>

<div style=“text-align:justify”>

Steven Cheng is currently the product manager for CodeSecure at Armorize
Technologies, Inc. He has been with the company for more than five years
spanning early from the development phase to current product management
role. His job primarily involves requirement gathering and specification
design. Recently the focus also shifted into development process in
order to have better control of release schedule.

In the past year Steven had led the CodeSecure team to undergo a major
product transformation in terms of distribution method from appliance to
pure software based, and complete UI redesign. The beta version is now
available for download and final release date is scheduled on 4th March.

</div>



## Clarke, Justin

<div align="left" style="float: left; margin: 0 4px 0 0; padding: 4px; border: 1px solid #aaa;">

![PicComingSoon.jpg](PicComingSoon.jpg "PicComingSoon.jpg")

</div>

<div style=“text-align:justify”>

Justin is a Director and Co-Founder of Gotham Digital Science, based in
London. Justin has extensive international risk management, security and
secure development consulting and testing experience in the United
Kingdom, United States and New Zealand. He is the lead author/technical
editor of "SQL Injection Attacks and Defenses" (Syngress), co-author of
"Network Security Tools" (O'Reilly), and a contributor to "Network
Security Assessment, 2nd Edition" (O’Reilly), as well as a speaker at
various security conferences and events such as Black Hat, EuSecWest,
ISACA, BruCON, OWASP, OSCON, RSA and SANS. Currently Chapter leader of
the OWASP London chapter, and a member of the OWASP Connections
Committee, he has a Bachelors degree in Computer Science from the
University of Canterbury in New Zealand. He’s also a CISSP, CISM, CISA,
CEH, and still has his MCSE if you have a Windows NT 4.0/Exchange 5.5
network.

</div>



## Coates, Michael

<div align="left" style="float: left; margin: 0 4px 0 0; padding: 4px; border: 1px solid #aaa;">

![PicComingSoon.jpg](PicComingSoon.jpg "PicComingSoon.jpg")

</div>

<div style=“text-align:justify”>

Michael Coates has extensive experience in application security,
security code review and penetration assessments. He has conducted
numerous security assessments for financial, enterprise and cellular
customers worldwide. Michael holds a master's degree in Computer
Security from DePaul University and a bachelor's degree in Computer
Science from the University of Illinois. Michael is the creator and
leader of the AppSensor project and a contributor to the 2010 OWASP Top
10. He is a frequent speaker at OWASP security conferences in the US and
Europe and has also spoken at the Chicago Thotcon conference and
provided security training at BlackHat. As the web security lead at
Mozilla, Michael protects web applications used by millions of users
each day.

</div>



## Coimbra, Paulo

<div align="left" style="float: left; margin: 0 4px 0 0; padding: 4px; border: 1px solid #aaa;">

![PicComingSoon.jpg](PicComingSoon.jpg "PicComingSoon.jpg")

</div>

<div style=“text-align:justify”>

Paulo has begun working for OWASP in July 2007 assuming the Spring of
Code closing process. In the beginning of 2008, he has become OWASP
part-time employee assuming the role of Project Manager. After
completing his IELTS course, his status has changed again when in July
2008 he moved into a full-time position. He answers directly to the
OWASP Board and has been working closely with the OWASP Global Projects
Committee since it has been institutionalized in November 2008. A few of
his OWASP’s heterogeneous contributions are as follows: • OWASP Spring
of Code 2007, • OWASP Summer of Code 2008, • OWASP EU Summit 2008, •
OWASP Assessment Criteria 1.0 & 2.0, • OWASP 'Project About' Templates,
• OWASP Projects Dashboard, • OWASP Project Reviewers Database, •
OWASP Training. Paulo Coimbra has a M.S. in Management (Technical
University of Lisbon), a Post-Graduation in Political Science
(University of Lisbon), and a B.S. in Management and Social Development
(Portuguese Catholic University). He has worked in management since
1992. He has performed different roles, from Economist
(IAPMEI/Portuguese Ministry of Economy) to Teacher of Finances,
Accountancy and M\&A (Polytechnic Institutes of Setúbal and Santarém),
to Marketing Director and Teacher of Project Finance, Corporate
Communication and Political Science (Piaget Institute).

</div>



## Cornell, Dan

<div align="left" style="float: left; margin: 0 4px 0 0; padding: 4px; border: 1px solid #aaa;">

![PicComingSoon.jpg](PicComingSoon.jpg "PicComingSoon.jpg")

</div>

<div style=“text-align:justify”>

Dan Cornell has over twelve years of experience architecting and
developing web-based software systems. He leads Denim Group's security
research team in investigating the application of secure coding and
development techniques to improve web-based software development
methodologies. Dan was the founding coordinator and chairman for the
Java Users Group of San Antonio (JUGSA) and currently serves as the
OWASP San Antonio chapter leader, member of the OWASP Global Membership
Committee and co-lead of the OWASP Open Review Project. Dan has spoken
at such international conferences as ROOTs in Norway and OWASP EU Summit
in Portugal.

</div>



## Corry, Bil

<div align="left" style="float: left; margin: 0 4px 0 0; padding: 4px; border: 1px solid #aaa;">

![PicComingSoon.jpg](PicComingSoon.jpg "PicComingSoon.jpg")

</div>

<div style=“text-align:justify”>

Information Security Engineer at PayPal I have extensive experience in
information security, information technology and web application
development. I bring integrity and accountability to all of my projects.
Beyond my technical skills, I also have experience managing people and
resources, budgeting, metrics, legal issues, strategic planning, and
public speaking.

Information Security: access controls, disaster recovery, network
security, web application security, HIPAA, PCI, application lifecycle,
penetration testing, auditing, security research and more. Information
Technology: server administration, hardware/software
installation/configuration, help desk/technical support, product
evaluation, and more. Web Application Development: entire development
cycle, from design to implementation to quality assurance to deployment.
Specialties: Contributor to HTML5
(http://www.whatwg.org/specs/web-apps/current-work/multipage/acknowledgements.html\#acknowledgements)
Contributor to WASC Threat Classification v2
(http://projects.webappsec.org/Threat-Classification-Authors)

</div>



## Cruz, Dinis

<div align="left" style="float: left; margin: 0 4px 0 0; padding: 4px; border: 1px solid #aaa;">

![PicComingSoon.jpg](PicComingSoon.jpg "PicComingSoon.jpg")

</div>

<div style=“text-align:justify”>

Dinis Cruz is a Security Consultant based in London (UK) and specialized
in: ASP.NET/J2EE Application Security, Application Security audits and
.NET Security Curriculum Development. For the past couple years Dinis
has focused on the field of Static Source Code Analysis and Dynamic
Website Assessments (aka penetration testing), and is the main developer
of the OWASP O2 Platform which is an Open Source project that is focused
on 'Automating Security Consultants Knowledge/Workflows' and 'Allowing
non-security experts to access and consume Security Knowledge'. Dinis is
currently focused on making the O2 Platform the industry standard for
consuming, instrumenting and data-sharing between: the multiple
WebAppSec tools, the Security consultants and the final users (from
management to developers). Past industry experience include: running a
small Software/Consultancy business, acting as CTO for a Portuguese
University, being part of a Security Assessment team (Pentesting and
Source Code Assessment) for a global Bank (ABN AMRO), taking the role of
Directory of Advanced Technologies at Ounce Labs (acquired by IBM)
performing Web Application security assessments on a large number of
languages/technologies/frameworks and being a very active participant
and enabler at OWASP.

</div>



## Cruz, Sarah

<div align="left" style="float: left; margin: 0 4px 0 0; padding: 4px; border: 1px solid #aaa;">

![PicComingSoon.jpg](PicComingSoon.jpg "PicComingSoon.jpg")

</div>

<div style=“text-align:justify”>

Sarah Cruz is an award winning graphic designer working in London for
Lewis Moberly www.lewismoberly.com. She Is responsible for the design of
such global icons as Glenmorangie whisky, Johnnie Walker director’s
blend, Sport England, and the new Gatwick Airport identity. She designed
the OWASP Summit '08, and the OWASP Summit 2011 identity. In 2008 she
founded the charity Abundance London www.abundancelondon.com, which
works with school groups to harvest surplus local fruit from city
gardens and parks, and supplies it to local restaurants. English by
birth, she grew up in the US. Sarah went to Choate and has a BA (hons)
from Carnegie Mellon University. She can speak a bit of Portuguese.
Sarah has two daughters 7 and 5 with husband Dinis Cruz.

</div>



## Dawson, Isaac

<div align="left" style="float: left; margin: 0 4px 0 0; padding: 4px; border: 1px solid #aaa;">

![PicComingSoon.jpg](PicComingSoon.jpg "PicComingSoon.jpg")

</div>

<div style=“text-align:justify”>

I am interested in all forms of application/network security. I mainly
enjoy trying to think of unique ways of breaking applications from a
business logic stand point. I have published the following papers: •
Blind Buffer Overflows in ISAPI extensions:
<http://www.securityfocus.com/infocus/1819> - This article was released
on the main page of the leading security news and information site,
Security Focus in January 2005. • The Benefits of Combining Automated
and Manual Penetration Testing (Japanese Only):
<https://www4.symantec.com/Vrt/offer?_requestid=22090&a_id=42747> – This
white paper was written to aid our sales team in educating our customers
as to the benefits of combining manual testing with automated tools. I
felt that the Japanese market relied too heavily on tool based analysis
so the paper was written to show what automated tools cannot find.
Specialties: application assessments, network assessments, some reverse
engineering

</div>



## De Win, Bart

<div align="left" style="float: left; margin: 0 4px 0 0; padding: 4px; border: 1px solid #aaa;">

![PicComingSoon.jpg](PicComingSoon.jpg "PicComingSoon.jpg")

</div>

<div style=“text-align:justify”>

Bart is a security enthusiast with an extensive academic background. He
is a master in Computer Science. Afterwards, he has spent over a decade
researching and improving techniques for the analysis and development of
secure software, among others in the context of his Ph.D. He authored
more than 60 articles published in international journals or
conferences. He is specialized in methodological and constructive
software security techniques, with a specific focus on application
security. Because of his background, he has an in-depth knowledge of the
state-of-the-art in the area. Bart currently works as a security
consultant in the domain of application security. He works on a daily
basis on application assessments and on helping customers improving
their software security practices. Bart is one of the OWASP chapter
leaders of the Belgian OWASP chapter. He co-organizes the OWASP BeNeLux
events.

</div>



## Deleersnyder, Seba

<div align="left" style="float: left; margin: 0 4px 0 0; padding: 4px; border: 1px solid #aaa;">

![PicComingSoon.jpg](PicComingSoon.jpg "PicComingSoon.jpg")

</div>

<div style=“text-align:justify”>

Sebastien Deleersnyder (Seba), Managing Technical Consultant SAIT
Zenitel. Starting up the ICT Security bussines line for SAIT Zenitel
BeNeLux-France (www.saitzenitel.com). I started the Belgian OWASP
Chapter in 2005, have started the OWASP Education project and
participate in the global chapters committee and the Board of the OWASP
Foundation. I co-organize the yearly security & hacker BruCON conference
and trainings in Brussels (www.brucon.org). As security project leader
and information security officer for multiple customers I have build up
extensive experience in Information Security related disciplines, both
at strategic and tactical level. I specialise in (Web) Application
Security, combining both my broad development and information security
experience.

</div>



## DiPaola, Stefano

<div align="left" style="float: left; margin: 0 4px 0 0; padding: 4px; border: 1px solid #aaa;">

![PicComingSoon.jpg](PicComingSoon.jpg "PicComingSoon.jpg")

</div>

<div style=“text-align:justify”>

Stefano Di Paola is the CTO and a cofounder of Minded Security, where he
is responsible for Research and Development Lab. Prior to founding
Minded Security, Stefano was a freelance security consultant, working
for several private and public companies. He also worked in
collaboration with University of Florence at the Faculty of Computer
Engineering. Stefano is recognized as one of the top application
security researchers. In the past years he released several advisories
including the ones that are not publicly disclosed but patched and
several open source tools. He has also contributed to OWASP testing
guide and is also the Research & Development Director of OWASP Italian
Chapter.

</div>



## Donovan, Fred

<div align="left" style="float: left; margin: 0 4px 0 0; padding: 4px; border: 1px solid #aaa;">

![PicComingSoon.jpg](PicComingSoon.jpg "PicComingSoon.jpg")

</div>

<div style=“text-align:justify”>

Fred is an application security researcher and the founder of Attack
Logic, a U.S. based AppSec consultancy. He spent 3 years as a private
researcher on campus at UNL’s Technology Park in the field of InfoSec
and for the past 11 years has provided executive level IT services to
public and private organizations. Application Security has been his
exclusive focus for the past seven with a general focus on information
warfare and the uses of counter intelligence for purposes of corporate
defense. He is a regular guest lecturer and speaker at Universities,
Conferences, and professional organizations. Mr. Donovan is alumni of
the University of Missouri -- Columbia (Mizzou) and the American
Military University (AMU).

</div>



## Durkee, Ralph

<div align="left" style="float: left; margin: 0 4px 0 0; padding: 4px; border: 1px solid #aaa;">

![PicComingSoon.jpg](PicComingSoon.jpg "PicComingSoon.jpg")

</div>

<div style=“text-align:justify”>

Ralph Durkee, CISSP, GSEC, GCIH, GSNA, GCIA, GPEN is the principal
security consultant and president of Durkee Consulting, Inc since 1996.
Ralph founded the OWASP Rochester, NY chapter since 2004 and currently
serves as a member of the OWASP Global Conferences Committee. Ralph also
serves as president of the Rochester ISSA Chapter and chairs the annual
Rochester Security Summit. He performs a variety of security audits and
software security assessments and software development consultations for
clients in the Rochester, NY area. His expertise in penetration testing,
incident handling, secure software development and secure Internet and
web applications is based on over 30 years of both hands-on and
technical training experience. He has developed and taught a wide
variety of professional security seminars including custom web
application security training, and SANS SEC401 & SEC504 - Hacker
Techniques and Incident Handling and CISSP bootcamp courses since 2004.
Ralph regularly leads development of a wide variety of security
standards such as application security, database encryption and security
consulting for compliance with the Payment Card Industry Data Security
Standard.

</div>



## Dworakowski, Wojciech

<div align="left" style="float: left; margin: 0 4px 0 0; padding: 4px; border: 1px solid #aaa;">

![PicComingSoon.jpg](PicComingSoon.jpg "PicComingSoon.jpg")

</div>

<div style=“text-align:justify”>

I am co-founder and Director at SecuRing - company specializing in
security testing services, based in Krakow, Poland. During last 8 years
at SecuRing, I was managing many projects in domain of security testing
for leading financial companies and public organizations. Considering
OWASP, I am especially interested in: • Security testing management. •
ASVS. • OWASP Testing Guide, etc. • Risk assessment vs. (web)
applications. • Security development lifecycle (OpenSAMM). • Penetration
testing & code review. • Frameworks security. OWASP Poland board member.
ISMS Lead Auditor / BS7799 certified.

</div>



## Elias, Wagner

<div align="left" style="float: left; margin: 0 4px 0 0; padding: 4px; border: 1px solid #aaa;">

![PicComingSoon.jpg](PicComingSoon.jpg "PicComingSoon.jpg")

</div>

<div style=“text-align:justify”>

<http://wagnerelias.com/> Sao Paulo Brazil Certifications: CBCP -
Certified Business Continuity Professional SANS GIAC GHTQ CobiT
Foundation ITIL Foundation Specialties • Application Security •
Penetration Test • BCMS (Business Continuity Management System) • DRP
(Disaster Recovery Plan) • ISMS (Information Security Management System)
• DMS (Data Management System) • Risk Analysis & Mitigation • Pre-Sales
& Customer Interface • Risk-Critical Solution Design & Deployment •
Public Speaking & Writing Talents

</div>



## Eng,Chris

<div align="left" style="float: left; margin: 0 4px 0 0; padding: 4px; border: 1px solid #aaa;">

![PicComingSoon.jpg](PicComingSoon.jpg "PicComingSoon.jpg")

</div>

<div style=“text-align:justify”>

Chris Eng is Senior Director of Research at Veracode, where he helps
define and implement the security analysis capabilities of Veracode’s
service offerings. He has over 12 years of experience in information
security, including senior technical positions at Symantec and @stake,
where he specialized in software security assessments, penetration
testing, reverse engineering, and vulnerability research while also
leading the development of @stake’s WebProxy product. During this time,
he advised numerous Fortune 100 companies on software security and
served as a global leader for Symantec’s Attack and Penetration Center
of Excellence. He began his career with the US Department of Defense
working on a variety of offensive-minded infosec projects. Chris speaks
regularly at top information security conferences including BlackHat,
OWASP, and RSA, discussing topics such as cryptographic attacks,
application security metrics, secure coding, and the SDLC. He also
serves on the advisory board for the SOURCE Boston and SOURCE Barcelona
security conferences. Along with experts from more than 30 US and
international cyber security organizations, he helped develop the
CWE/SANS Top 25 Most Dangerous Programming Errors.

</div>



## Evans, Arian

<div align="left" style="float: left; margin: 0 4px 0 0; padding: 4px; border: 1px solid #aaa;">

![PicComingSoon.jpg](PicComingSoon.jpg "PicComingSoon.jpg")

</div>

<div style=“text-align:justify”>

Arian Evans is the VP of Operations at WhiteHat Security. In this role,
Arian leads a team of application security engineers integral to
delivering the WhiteHat Sentinel SaaS-based website vulnerability
management service, currently assessing over 3000 production websites
around the globe, primarily in e-commerce, financial services and
healthcare verticals, and including many Fortune 500 companies. Arian's
team also verifies all vulnerabilities identified by WhiteHat Sentinel,
a unique feature of the service. Arian has worked at the forefront of
Web application security for more than 10 years. His global projects
include work with the Center for InternetSecurity, NIST, the FBI, the
Secret Service, and many large commercial organizations in analyzing Web
application security and providing hacking incident-response. Arian also
researches and discloses new attack techniques and vulnerabilities in
Web application software including commercial platforms like Cisco and
Nokia. Previously, Arian led the Application Security Practice at
FishNet Security, working with Fortune 500 clients and delivering
software security services globally. Arian is a frequent speaker at
industry conferences including Black Hat, Hacker Halted, OWASP, RSA, and
WASC events, and was also a contributing author for "Hacking Exposed:
Web Applications."

</div>



## Falkenberg, Andreas

<div align="left" style="float: left; margin: 0 4px 0 0; padding: 4px; border: 1px solid #aaa;">

![PicComingSoon.jpg](PicComingSoon.jpg "PicComingSoon.jpg")

</div>

<div style=“text-align:justify”>

Student at the Chair for Network and Data Security, Ruhr University
Bochum Germany. Research interests include: - Web Service Security - Web
Service Attacks - XSS

</div>



## Fazli Azran, Mohd

<div align="left" style="float: left; margin: 0 4px 0 0; padding: 4px; border: 1px solid #aaa;">

![PicComingSoon.jpg](PicComingSoon.jpg "PicComingSoon.jpg")

</div>

<div style=“text-align:justify”>

Mohd Fazli Azran was OSS evangelist and are active use OSS from 1996.
Join many OSS community and spread about OSS to public. Work as System
Administrator almost 10 years and believe on OSS spirit "Sharing is
Caring". Now move into Open Source Security for make awareness to public
what is OSS security can do for community. Currently was Fedora
Ambassador & openSUSE Ambassador. He also was CyberSafe Ambassador for
Security Awareness by CyberSecurity Malaysia. He also was Secretariat
for Open Source Developer Club Malaysia (OSDCMY) that organized Malaysia
Open Source Conference (MOSC). Now active being OWASP Malaysia Chapter
Leader.

</div>



## Fedon, Giorgio

<div align="left" style="float: left; margin: 0 4px 0 0; padding: 4px; border: 1px solid #aaa;">

![PicComingSoon.jpg](PicComingSoon.jpg "PicComingSoon.jpg")

</div>

<div style=“text-align:justify”>

Giorgio Fedon is the COO and a cofounder of Minded Security, where he is
responsible for running daily operations of the company and managing
Professional Services. Prior to founding Minded Security, Giorgio was
employed as senior security consultant and penetration tester at Emaze
Networks S.p.a., delivered code auditing, Forensic and Log analysis,
Malware Analysis and complex Penetration Testing services to some of the
most important Companies as Banks and Public Agencies in Italy. He
participated as speaker in many national and international events
talking mainly about web security and malware obfuscation techniques. He
was also employed at IBM System & Technology Group in Dublin (Ireland).

</div>



## Ferraz, Felipe

<div align="left" style="float: left; margin: 0 4px 0 0; padding: 4px; border: 1px solid #aaa;">

![PicComingSoon.jpg](PicComingSoon.jpg "PicComingSoon.jpg")

</div>

<div style=“text-align:justify”>

Felipe Ferraz is PhD candidate, has a Master Degree and Post Graduation
on Software Engineering with emphasis on: Software Engineering, system
architectures and Information Security. Worked with computer system for
the last 8 years, experience in design and develop applications both web
and mobile, specially with J2ME and Android Technologies. Has been
Teaching Software Security Engineering on CESAR.EDU and FBV.

</div>



## Ferreira, Lucas C.

<div align="left" style="float: left; margin: 0 4px 0 0; padding: 4px; border: 1px solid #aaa;">

![PicComingSoon.jpg](PicComingSoon.jpg "PicComingSoon.jpg")

</div>

<div style=“text-align:justify”>

Lucas has been a security professional for more than 15 years. He began
working on network security and then security management. As he has
several developers in the family, he got interested in secure
development techniques. In 2008, he answer a Call for Trainings to be
delivered at the first OWASP Summit and got the opportunity to go to
Portugal and to know OWASP and its leaders. In 2009 he managed to put
together the first AppSec Conference in South America and did it again
in 2010. He is now more involved in OWASP than ever, having a seat at
the Global Conferences Committee, leading the OWASP local chapter in
Brasilia, DF, Brazil and leading the newborn OWASP Portuguese Project.

</div>



## Fette, Ian

<div align="left" style="float: left; margin: 0 4px 0 0; padding: 4px; border: 1px solid #aaa;">

![PicComingSoon.jpg](PicComingSoon.jpg "PicComingSoon.jpg")

</div>

<div style=“text-align:justify”>

Product Manager on the Google Chrome team. Responsible for ensuring the
APIs we add to Google Chrome and to web standards provide a coherent
development platform that meets the needs of Google's application
developers and web developers at large. Experience managing large
globally distributed products, currently managing a group split between
N. America, Europe, and Asia. Engineer with the U.S. Government, working
on large highly available database applications, with security
clearance. Specialties: Product management, web standards, contract
negotiations, security, phishing, malware

</div>



## Fitzgerald, Alexis

<div align="left" style="float: left; margin: 0 4px 0 0; padding: 4px; border: 1px solid #aaa;">

![PicComingSoon.jpg](PicComingSoon.jpg "PicComingSoon.jpg")

</div>

<div style=“text-align:justify”>

"I spent many years on the development side of the fence working on both
thick client and web-based applications. That was mainly in the
financial sector in Ireland and Switzerland. In the early noughties
somebody asked me if I had heard of this thing called "SQL Injection".
That was when I began the transition from poacher to gamekeeper, working
on the security end of things. I continue to do a good deal of
development.

My first contact with OWASP was the AppSec Europe conference at Royal
Holloway outside of London in 2005. Since then I have mainly been a
consumer of OWASP resources, apart from giving a few talks at various
chapter meetings. My goal with OWASP is to help development teams build
"enough" security into their projects and to raise general awareness
about OWASP and application security. That is why I believe that
outreach and education type initiatives must be key aspects in the
future direction of OWASP."

</div>



## Fitzhugh, Justin

<div align="left" style="float: left; margin: 0 4px 0 0; padding: 4px; border: 1px solid #aaa;">

![PicComingSoon.jpg](PicComingSoon.jpg "PicComingSoon.jpg")

</div>

<div style=“text-align:justify”>

Justin Fitzhugh is the VP of Engineering Operations for the Mozilla
Corporation. He's responsible for all Mozilla’s production and corporate
infrastructure, including serving the Firefox product to more than 150
million users. In addition to Firefox distribution, his team designs,
implements and supports the infrastructure for one of the largest open
source organizations in the world. Prior to Mozilla, Justin managed
Macromedia’s global datacenter environment. He spends his spare time as
an avid pilot, snowboarder and father in the Bay Area.

</div>



## Flores, Mauro

<div align="left" style="float: left; margin: 0 4px 0 0; padding: 4px; border: 1px solid #aaa;">

![PicComingSoon.jpg](PicComingSoon.jpg "PicComingSoon.jpg")

</div>

<div style=“text-align:justify”>

I start working on security stuff at the age of 18 disassembling viruses
and helping to develop AV technologies. After that I work as a developer
for companies related to the financial industry where I help to develop
credit card related applications, home bankings and stuff like that.
Then I move to the administration phase of my life where I work as a
security network administrator for the main TMT company of my country.
At the same time I did security research and develop for companies on
the United Kingdom and Brasil. Now I work as a security consultant in
Deloitte Uruguay.

</div>



## Fontes, Antonio

<div align="left" style="float: left; margin: 0 4px 0 0; padding: 4px; border: 1px solid #aaa;">

![PicComingSoon.jpg](PicComingSoon.jpg "PicComingSoon.jpg")

</div>

<div style=“text-align:justify”>

A.F. has over 10 years experience in the field of software development
and risk management with private organizations. Member of the OWASP
Switzerland board, he leads the Geneva chapter and contributes in
several reference software security projects such as the "CWE Top 25
most dangerous programing errors." Antonio currently works at L7
Sécurité, a swiss security & risk consultancy company he founded in
2010. His work strongly emphasizes on helping organizations better
understand Internet threats and manage their risks

</div>



## Fort, Julio Cesar

<div align="left" style="float: left; margin: 0 4px 0 0; padding: 4px; border: 1px solid #aaa;">

![PicComingSoon.jpg](PicComingSoon.jpg "PicComingSoon.jpg")

</div>

<div style=“text-align:justify”>

As you can see, my name is Julio Cesar Fort, 24, yet another guy living
in Recife, Pernambuco, a very beautiful state located in northeast of
Brazil. Currently I am an undergraduate student of Computer Engineering
at CIn/UFPE (Pernambuco Federal University) and former undergraduate
student in Mechanics Engineering at the same university. I also have a
parallel activity as self-proclaimed (haha) editor-in-chief of The Bug\!
Magazine, the only active hacking-related e-zine in Brazil nowadays. By
the second half of 2005 and early 2006 I was a schoolarship holder of
CNPq and acted as intern at C.E.S.A.R. learning secure coding techniques
in C. I confess I had a great time there but I could have learned much
more. After my time in C.E.S.A.R. was over, I worked, also as intern, in
coadmin team at Tempest Technologies, a very nice market-leading company
Brazilian information security industry. Tempest was nice because, it
doesn't sell fear and lies like other companies that make this industry
so filthy. I asked to leave the company because I had no time to study
and my grades were dropping as hell. By the way, Recife is also a
brazilian technological pole. Cases like Porto Digital and C.E.S.A.R.
are the living proof of it. Because of these initiactives we have now
based in Recife major companies such as Motorola, Intel, Samsung, LG
Electronics, Nokia research institute and even Microsoft.

</div>



## Fortuna, Pedro

<div align="left" style="float: left; margin: 0 4px 0 0; padding: 4px; border: 1px solid #aaa;">

![PicComingSoon.jpg](PicComingSoon.jpg "PicComingSoon.jpg")

</div>

<div style=“text-align:justify”>

He is a co-founder and CTO of AuditMark where he coordinates the R\&D.
AuditMark is a web-security start-up focused on two main areas: web
traffic auditing and website protection. AuditMark already launched a
Javascript obfuscation service called JScrambler. Holds a degree in
Computing Engineering and a MSc in Computer Networks. Extensive
knowledge and professional experience in R\&D projects and software
development, both at academic and industrial levels. Teached at the
Faculty of Engineering of the University of Porto, and also gave
training in computer security. Currently, teaches Networks and Computer
Security at the Engineering School of the Polytechnic Institute of
Porto. He is also a member of INESC Porto L.A., a National R\&D
Laboratory, where he is working towards his PhD.

</div>



## Frosch,Tilman

<div align="left" style="float: left; margin: 0 4px 0 0; padding: 4px; border: 1px solid #aaa;">

![PicComingSoon.jpg](PicComingSoon.jpg "PicComingSoon.jpg")

</div>

<div style=“text-align:justify”>

Tilman Frosch works as a researcher for the Horst Görtz Institute for
IT-Security at Ruhr University Bochum, Germany. He is interested in
everything that leverages the browser to compromise the system. In his
spare time he stares at passive-DNS data and Ruby code. In the time left
he creates noises from various instruments or spends said time outdoors.

</div>



## Galvao, Pedro

<div align="left" style="float: left; margin: 0 4px 0 0; padding: 4px; border: 1px solid #aaa;">

![PicComingSoon.jpg](PicComingSoon.jpg "PicComingSoon.jpg")

</div>

<div style=“text-align:justify”>

I have a five years degree in Information System and Computer
Engineering (IST - Technical University of Lisbon), being a Oracle OCP
(Oracle Certified Professional), about 7 years of experience as Oracle
DBA and about 14 years of IT experience. Besides this, through my
professional career, I had been in several roles such as Trainer,
Systems Administrator, Project Manager, and as a Programmer.

</div>



## Gao, Helen

<div align="left" style="float: left; margin: 0 4px 0 0; padding: 4px; border: 1px solid #aaa;">

![PicComingSoon.jpg](PicComingSoon.jpg "PicComingSoon.jpg")

</div>

<div style=“text-align:justify”>

Helen Gao has worked in the field of information security since 1991.
She has worked as an application developer, manager as well as a
software architect. Her employment history includes a financial
institution, a market research company, a high-tech device manufacturer
and a software company. Helen is a senior architect in TIBCO Software
Inc. Her job duties include designing and developing complex event
processing software. Protect information security in such systems is
challenging because of their strict performance requirements in terms of
high event throughput and low processing latency. Helen welcomes the
challenge and uses the knowledge she obtained from OWASP to manage the
life cycle of projects. |Helen has taught math, physics and computer
science in colleges in both United States and China. Helen graduated
from Sun Yat-sen University in China. She continued her studies of
physics and computer science after she came to the United States. Helen
has masters degrees in both physics and computer science. Helen founded
the Long Island OWASP chapter in 2006. Besides volunteering for OWASP,
she serves as the president of Sun Yat-sun University Alumni
Association. Helen helped found the Long Island Chinese School.

</div>



## Garrancho, Bruno

<div align="left" style="float: left; margin: 0 4px 0 0; padding: 4px; border: 1px solid #aaa;">

![PicComingSoon.jpg](PicComingSoon.jpg "PicComingSoon.jpg")

</div>

<div style=“text-align:justify”>

Information security professional with global experience in diverse
environments. I hold a Msc in Information Technology - Information
Security by Carnegie Mellon University. I’m currently the Security
Practice Leader of Professinal Services & Innovation for Logica Iberia.

</div>



## Garg, Vishal

<div align="left" style="float: left; margin: 0 4px 0 0; padding: 4px; border: 1px solid #aaa;">

![PicComingSoon.jpg](PicComingSoon.jpg "PicComingSoon.jpg")

</div>

<div style=“text-align:justify”>

Vishal Garg is the Founder and Principal Security Consultant for
AppSecure Labs Limited, a UK based company offering application security
and penetration testing services. He specialises in conducting network
and application security reviews, design reviews, and vulnerability
research and analysis for web-based applications, cloud-based systems
and COTS applications. In his 12-year career, he has offered software
development and expert security advice to several recognised Fortune 500
and FTSE 100 companies including international financial institutions,
retailers and multinationals. He has a masters degree in Information
Security from Royal Holloway, University of London and is a Certified
Information Systems Security Professional (CISSP) and a Certified
Information Systems Auditor (CISA) and currently the project leader for
the OWASP Development Guide.

</div>



## Gomes, Leandro Resende

<div align="left" style="float: left; margin: 0 4px 0 0; padding: 4px; border: 1px solid #aaa;">

![PicComingSoon.jpg](PicComingSoon.jpg "PicComingSoon.jpg")

</div>

<div style=“text-align:justify”>

Leandro Resende Gomes lives in Brasília, capital of Brazil. He works at
SERPRO, Brazilian Federal Data Processing Service, organization that
creates and maintains huge computer systems for critical public
companies. Leandro works on a security development group, responsible to
address corporative security aspects during the SDLC. This group was
created in 2006, and they discovered OWASP on that same year. The main
contribution to OWASP was the translation of ASVS and QuickRef Guide.
The work of this group includes the dissemination of technical
orientation, source code analysis and pen testing coordination and
definition of security components/frameworks to be adopted. The last
events Leandro participated was BlackHat 2009 conference in Las Vegas,
OWASP AppSec 2009 and ICCyber 2010, Brazil. He wrote an article about
"Securing web applications with fuzzing tests" for a SERPRO internal
conference.

</div>



## Gondrom,Tobias

<div align="left" style="float: left; margin: 0 4px 0 0; padding: 4px; border: 1px solid #aaa;">

![PicComingSoon.jpg](PicComingSoon.jpg "PicComingSoon.jpg")

</div>

<div style=“text-align:justify”>

Tobias Gondrom is Managing Director of an IT Security & Risk Management
Advisory based in the United Kingdom and Germany. He has twelve years of
experience in software development, application security, cryptography,
electronic signatures and global standardisation organisations working
for independent software vendors and large global corporations in the
financial, technology and government sector, in America, EMEA and APAC.
As the Global Head of the Security Team at Open Text (2005-2007) and
from 2000-2004 as the lead of the Security Task Force at IXOS Software
AG, he was responsible for security, risk and incident management and
introduced and implemented a secure SDLC used globally by development
departments in the US, Canada, UK, Germany, and India. Since 2003 he is
the chair of the IETF working group „LTANS“ in the security area, member
of the IETF security directorate, and since 2010 chair of the web
security WG at the IETF, and a former chapter lead of the German OWASP
chapter from 2007 to 2008. Tobias is the author of the international
standard RFC 4998 (Evidence Record Syntax) and co-author and contributor
to a number of internet standards and papers on security and electronic
signatures, as well as the co-author of the book „Secure Electronic
Archiving“ (ISBN 3-87081-427-6), and frequent presenter at conferences
and publication of articles (e.g. ISSE, Moderner Staat, IETF,
VOI-booklet “Electronic Signature“, iX).

</div>



## Greene,Collin

<div align="left" style="float: left; margin: 0 4px 0 0; padding: 4px; border: 1px solid #aaa;">

![PicComingSoon.jpg](PicComingSoon.jpg "PicComingSoon.jpg")

</div>

<div style=“text-align:justify”>

Security Engineer at Facebook. Development. Security. Security
Development. Recently focusing on building static and dynamic analysis
tools and getting them used within an organization.

</div>



## Hansen, Robert

<div align="left" style="float: left; margin: 0 4px 0 0; padding: 4px; border: 1px solid #aaa;">

![PicComingSoon.jpg](PicComingSoon.jpg "PicComingSoon.jpg")

</div>

<div style=“text-align:justify”>

Communications and Cable & Wireless in varying roles from Sr. Security
Architect and eventually product managing many of the managed security
services product lines. He also worked at eBay as a Sr. Global Product
Manager of Trust and Safety, focusing on anti-phishing, anti-DHTML
malware and anti-virus strategies. Later he worked as a director of
product management for Realtor.com. Robert sits on the advisory board
for the Intrepidus Group, previously sat on the technical advisory board
of ClickForensics and currently contributes to the security strategy of
several startup companies. Mr. Hansen wrote Detecting Malice authors
content on O'Reilly and co-authored "XSS Exploits" by Syngress
publishing. He sits on the NIST.gov Software Assurance Metrics and Tool
Evaluation group focusing on web application security scanners and the
Web Application Security Scanners Evaluation Criteria (WASC-WASSEC)
group. He also has briefed the DoD at the Pentagon and speaks at
SourceBoston, Secure360, GFIRST/US-CERT, CSI, Toorcon, APWG, ISSA,
TRISC, World OWASP/WASC conferences, SANS, Microsoft's Bluehat,
Blackhat, DefCon, SecTor, BSides, Networld+Interop, and has been the
keynote speaker at the New York Cyber Security Conference, NITES, OWASP
Appsec Asia and OWASP Appsec Brazil. Mr. Hansen is a member of
Infragard, West Austin Rotary, WASC, IACSP, APWG, contributed to the
OWASP 2.0 guide and is on the OWASP Connections Committee.

</div>



## Hartmann, Kate

<div align="left" style="float: left; margin: 0 4px 0 0; padding: 4px; border: 1px solid #aaa;">

![PicComingSoon.jpg](PicComingSoon.jpg "PicComingSoon.jpg")

</div>

<div style=“text-align:justify”>

Operations Director at OWASP

</div>



## Heiderich, Mario

<div align="left" style="float: left; margin: 0 4px 0 0; padding: 4px; border: 1px solid #aaa;">

![PicComingSoon.jpg](PicComingSoon.jpg "PicComingSoon.jpg")

</div>

<div style=“text-align:justify”>

Mario Heiderich works as a researcher for the Ruhr-University in Bochum,
Germany and currently focuses on HTML5, SVG security and security
implications of the ES5 specification draft. Mario invoked the HTML5
security cheat-sheet and maintains the PHPIDS filter rules. In his spare
time he delivers trainings and security consultancy for larger German
and international companies. He is also one of the co-authors of Web
Application Obfuscation:
'-/WAFs..Evasion..Filters//alert(/Obfuscation/)-' – a book on how an
attacker would bypass different types of security controls including
IDS/IPS.

</div>



## Heyes, Gareth

<div align="left" style="float: left; margin: 0 4px 0 0; padding: 4px; border: 1px solid #aaa;">

![PicComingSoon.jpg](PicComingSoon.jpg "PicComingSoon.jpg")

</div>

<div style=“text-align:justify”>

Gareth "Gaz" Heyes calls himself Chief Conspiracy theorist and is
affiliated with Microsoft. He is the designer and developer behind JSReg
– a Javascript sandbox which converts code using regular expressions;
HTMLReg & CSSReg – converters of malicious HTML/CSS into a safe form of
HTML. He is also one of the co-authors of Web Application Obfuscation:
'-/WAFs..Evasion..Filters//alert(/Obfuscation/)-' – a book on how an
attacker would bypass different types of security controls including
IDS/IPS.

</div>



## Hinojosa, Kuai

<div align="left" style="float: left; margin: 0 4px 0 0; padding: 4px; border: 1px solid #aaa;">

![PicComingSoon.jpg](PicComingSoon.jpg "PicComingSoon.jpg")

</div>

<div style=“text-align:justify”>

Enter bio here.

</div>



## Hodges, Jeff

<div align="left" style="float: left; margin: 0 4px 0 0; padding: 4px; border: 1px solid #aaa;">

![PicComingSoon.jpg](PicComingSoon.jpg "PicComingSoon.jpg")

</div>

<div style=“text-align:justify”>

Jeff Hodges is a practicing Security Engineer and Protocol Architect,
working at PayPal in the areas of web security, identity, and
distributed infrastructure. His interests lie in the areas of web
security as well as the nature of "online identity" and its realization
via composition of authentication, security, directory, and other
technologies. He participates in various IETF working groups including
those whose topics involve HTTP, TLS/SSL, and those that touch upon
security/identity. He also participates in various other Internet-based
fora, e.g. Internet Identity Workshop (IIW), OASIS (SSTC/SAML
committee), Kantara, Identity Commons, etc. In the recent past, he
contributed to the Liberty Alliance effort as an editor and co-author of
several of the Liberty ID-WSF and ID-FF protocol specifications.
Earlier, he served as co-chair of the OASIS Security Services Technical
Committee (SSTC/SAML), shepherding and contributing to the development
of SAMLv1.0, as well as subsequently contributing to v1.1 and v2.0. His
prior work has included contributions to the design of the LDAPv3
directory access protocol (in the areas of authentication and security),
as well as contributing to the design and deployment of Stanford
University's SUNet ID and Registry/Directory infrastructure. He's held
architecture, engineering, and management positions at NeuStar, Sun
Microsystems, Oblix, Stanford University, and Xerox.

</div>



## Hoff, Jerry

<div align="left" style="float: left; margin: 0 4px 0 0; padding: 4px; border: 1px solid #aaa;">

![PicComingSoon.jpg](PicComingSoon.jpg "PicComingSoon.jpg")

</div>

<div style=“text-align:justify”>

Jerry Hoff is a Senior Application Security Engineer at Aspect Security.
Jerry has led and performed numerous application security code reviews
for clients across multiple industries. Jerry also provides training
services for clients, and has over 10 years teaching and development
experience. Jerry is also involved in the Open Web Application Security
Project (OWASP) and was the lead developer of AntiSamy.net project. He
has a master's degree in Computer Science from Washington University in
St. Louis.

</div>



## Hoffman, Achim

<div align="left" style="float: left; margin: 0 4px 0 0; padding: 4px; border: 1px solid #aaa;">

![PicComingSoon.jpg](PicComingSoon.jpg "PicComingSoon.jpg")

</div>

<div style=“text-align:justify”>

"some" Security .. It's difficult to describe my knowledge in the
security world without being subjective, hence replace some by whatever
your feel happy with. The official title on the v-card will be senior
security and network consultant, which means something too. (Short) CV
I'm doing software development since early '80s, used to networking all
the time, and focused on web application security starting this
millenium. Meanwhile I've seen coming, have evaluated, have configured
and used, and have seen disappearing a lot of WAFs and web application
security scanners. Founded sic\[\!\]sec GmbH in 2010. OWASP Activities •
Participating in the German Chapter, German Chapter Board Member •
Project leader, maintainer, developer of OWASP EnDe Project • Reviewer
on some other OWASP projects (SoC 2008) • CAL9000 (added some
en-/decoding and request/response functionality; 2006) • OWASP papers: o
Best Practices: WAF o Best Practice: Projektierung der
Sicherheitsprüfung von Webanwendungen Public Papers / Work • HTTP State
Management Mechanism (Cookie) current httpstate working group
(contributor 2009/2010) • Best Practice: Projektierung der
Sicherheitsprüfung von Webanwendungen (author 2009) • Web Application
Security Threat Classification v2 (contributor 2008/2009/2010) • Best
Practices: Einsatz von Web Application Firewalls (co-author, 2008) •
Sicherheit von Webanwendungen: BSI-Maßnahmenkatalog und Best Practices
(author, 2005/2006) • Web Application Firewall Evaluation Criteria
(contributor, 2005) • Web Application Security Threat Classification v1
(contributor and German translation, 2004/2005)

</div>



## Hofmann, Chris

<div align="left" style="float: left; margin: 0 4px 0 0; padding: 4px; border: 1px solid #aaa;">

![PicComingSoon.jpg](PicComingSoon.jpg "PicComingSoon.jpg")

</div>

<div style=“text-align:justify”>

As Director of Engineering and then Special Projects at the Mozilla
Foundation and Corporation since 2003, Chris Hofmann has spearheaded the
research and development work of thousands of open source contributors
around the world. A Netscape employee before joining Mozilla, Chris
contributed to every Netscape and Mozilla browser release since 1996. As
the first employee at the Mozilla Foundation in August 2003, Chris led a
small but devoted team of the original ten engineers that established
the Mozilla Foundation as an independent and self-sustaining
organization. In 2004, Chris managed and executed the first worldwide
release of Mozilla Firefox 1.0. Firefox 1.0 helped to fulfill the
Mozilla Foundation’s goal of supporting open Web standards and provide
innovation and choice for Internet client software and set Firefox on a
path to remarkable market share growth over the last several years.
Chris now helps to build and strengthen Mozilla communities around the
world. These contributors and communities are involved with localization
of Firefox in to over 70 languages, extend Firefox with Addons, and
provide support to Firefox users. He engages with security researchers
to help improve browser security and manages Mozilla's Security Bug
Bounty Program. He is also interested in engaging, helping, and
promoting the work done in companies and large institutions to deploy
Firefox use and Mozilla technology.

</div>



## Hogben, Giles

<div align="left" style="float: left; margin: 0 4px 0 0; padding: 4px; border: 1px solid #aaa;">

![PicComingSoon.jpg](PicComingSoon.jpg "PicComingSoon.jpg")

</div>

<div style=“text-align:justify”>

Dr Giles Hogben is programme manager for secure services at the European
Network and Information Security Agency in Greece. He has led numerous
studies on Network and Information security, including on topics such as
Smartphone security, Cloud computing, Social Network security and
European Identity card privacy. Before joining ENISA, he was a
researcher at the Joint Research Centre in Ispra, Italy and led work on
private credentials. He has a PhD in Computer Science from Gdansk
University of Technology in Poland and graduated from Oxford University,
UK in 1994 in Physics and Philosophy.

</div>



## Ichnowski, Jeff

<div align="left" style="float: left; margin: 0 4px 0 0; padding: 4px; border: 1px solid #aaa;">

![PicComingSoon.jpg](PicComingSoon.jpg "PicComingSoon.jpg")

</div>

<div style=“text-align:justify”>

Principal Architect at SuccessFactors

</div>



## Jimenez, Juan Jose Rider

<div align="left" style="float: left; margin: 0 4px 0 0; padding: 4px; border: 1px solid #aaa;">

![PicComingSoon.jpg](PicComingSoon.jpg "PicComingSoon.jpg")

</div>

<div style=“text-align:justify”>

CEO at WUL4, Spain • Finantial industry: designer of computer
solutions(ecommerce, PCI-DSS, etc) • Healthcare system architect:
ChipCard (https://www.chipcard-salud.es/) • SOA-related technologies
expert • Web Services expert • High-performance required application
architect • J2EE related-technologies expert • IBM Websphere expert •
Payment methods and protocols, ecommerce, Internet, 3D-Secure, 3DSET,
SPA/UCAF, etc • JSF, RichFaces, Ajax • Team Leadership. • Business
Development. Specialties: E-Invoice expert(facturae, etc), PCI-DSS,
Security for Web Applications, Web Services, e-commerce, SOA, J2EE,...

</div>



## Jorge, Eduardo

<div align="left" style="float: left; margin: 0 4px 0 0; padding: 4px; border: 1px solid #aaa;">

![PicComingSoon.jpg](PicComingSoon.jpg "PicComingSoon.jpg")

</div>

<div style=“text-align:justify”>

Enter bio here.

</div>



## Kang, Abraham

<div align="left" style="float: left; margin: 0 4px 0 0; padding: 4px; border: 1px solid #aaa;">

![PicComingSoon.jpg](PicComingSoon.jpg "PicComingSoon.jpg")

</div>

<div style=“text-align:justify”>

Work for financial institution in their code review group Have been
working on application security issues for over 8 years (focused on
security code review for last 3+ years). Published articles related to
enterprise application integration, scalability, and security. Been
recently focused on XSS remediation and DOM based XSS. Also interested
in Unicode exploits and filter bypassing using character set mismatches.
Recently contributed the candidate chapter for Output Encoding for the
Web App Security Guide 3.0. Looking to contribute more to XSS, AJAX
security, Unicode content on the OWASP site.

</div>



## Keary, Eoin

<div align="left" style="float: left; margin: 0 4px 0 0; padding: 4px; border: 1px solid #aaa;">

![PicComingSoon.jpg](PicComingSoon.jpg "PicComingSoon.jpg")

</div>

<div style=“text-align:justify”>

Eoin is a senior manager with Ernst & Young Risk Advisory Services
responsible for Attack and Penetration services for EMEIA. He is a
member of the Global Board of OWASP, the founder of the Irish chapter of
OWASP and also editor/lead of the published OWASP Code Review
(2007/2008) and Testing (V2.0) Guides 2007. He specializes in global
large scale penetration testing services. He is also a coordinator for
OWASP EU 2011 (to be held in June 2011) and previously organized OWASP
Ireland 2009 & 2010

</div>



## Knobloch, Martin

<div align="left" style="float: left; margin: 0 4px 0 0; padding: 4px; border: 1px solid #aaa;">

![PicComingSoon.jpg](PicComingSoon.jpg "PicComingSoon.jpg")

</div>

<div style=“text-align:justify”>

Martin Knobloch is a independent Security Consultant at
<http://www.pervasec.nl>. In his previous employment at Sogeti
Netherlands B.V., Martin founded and lead the Information security
task-force PaSS (Proactive Security Strategy) addressing organization,
infrastructure and software. Martin is member of the OWASP Netherlands
Chapter Board and Chair of the Global Education Committee. He is leading
and contributing to various OWASP Project and is member of the OWASP
Summit organization team.

</div>



## Kosturjak, Vlatko

<div align="left" style="float: left; margin: 0 4px 0 0; padding: 4px; border: 1px solid #aaa;">

![PicComingSoon.jpg](PicComingSoon.jpg "PicComingSoon.jpg")

</div>

<div style=“text-align:justify”>

Vlatko Kosturjak is security consultant delivering his services in
Europe, Middle East and Africa (EMEA) region. He holds multiple certs
like PCI QSA, CISSP, CISA, C |EH, LPIC-3... He likes to contribute to
open source (security) software and you can find his code in snort,
OpenVAS, Nmap, Metasploit and w3af. He is OWASP Croatia chapter leader
and OWASP favicon project leader.

</div>



## Koussa, Sherif

<div align="left" style="float: left; margin: 0 4px 0 0; padding: 4px; border: 1px solid #aaa;">

![PicComingSoon.jpg](PicComingSoon.jpg "PicComingSoon.jpg")

</div>

<div style=“text-align:justify”>

Sherif Koussa is an application security independent consultant. Founder
and Leader of OWASP Ottawa since 2006. Founder and principal consultant
for Software Secured; an application security boutique shop.

</div>



## Kuivenhoven, Marinus

<div align="left" style="float: left; margin: 0 4px 0 0; padding: 4px; border: 1px solid #aaa;">

![PicComingSoon.jpg](PicComingSoon.jpg "PicComingSoon.jpg")

</div>

<div style=“text-align:justify”>

Marinus Kuivenhoven works as a Senior Security Specialist at Sogeti
Nederland BV. He has experience in developing for and administration of
multi-tier systems. He is one of the founders and an active member of
the Sogeti taskforce PaSS (Proactive Security Strategy), which focuses
on implementations of the secure development lifecycle. Marinus
developed and teaches several courses in application security for
colleagues, educational institutes and customers. He is actively
involved in OWASP. In the past years he has written articles for
magazines like Computable and We Love IT. And he spoken on several
international events including OWASP, ROOTs, Open Source Developer
Conference and Engineering World.

</div>



## Kumar, Nishi

<div align="left" style="float: left; margin: 0 4px 0 0; padding: 4px; border: 1px solid #aaa;">

![PicComingSoon.jpg](PicComingSoon.jpg "PicComingSoon.jpg")

</div>

<div style=“text-align:justify”>

Nishi Kumar Systems Architect, FIS. Nishi is an Architect with 20 years
of broad industry experience. She is part of OWASP Global Education
Committee and project lead for OWASP CBT (Computer based training)
project. She is a committed contributor of OWASP. She has spearheaded
Secure Code Initiative program in FIS Electronics Payment division. As
part of that program, she has delivered OWASP based training to
management and development teams to various groups in FIS. She has been
involved with PA-DSS certification of several applications in FIS. Since
joining FIS in 2004 she has worked as an architect and team lead for
several financial payment and fraud applications. She has hands-on
accomplishments in design, development and deployment of complex
software systems on a variety of platforms. Prior to joining FIS Nishi
Kumar has worked for Pavilion, HNC, Fair Isaac, Trajecta, Nationwide
Insurance and Data Junction as Senior Software Engineer, Architect and
in Project Management roles.

</div>



## Li, Jason

<div align="left" style="float: left; margin: 0 4px 0 0; padding: 4px; border: 1px solid #aaa;">

![PicComingSoon.jpg](PicComingSoon.jpg "PicComingSoon.jpg")

</div>

<div style=“text-align:justify”>

• Application security professional with experience in leading code
review, penetration testing, and regulatory compliance assessments. •
Proficient software developer including time spent as technical lead for
Java and Java EE applications. • Broad training background including
development of courses about software development and application as
well as delivery in live, virtual and eLearning formats. • Heavy
involvement in the Open Web Application Security Project (OWASP)
Foundation including: - Co-Chair of the OWASP Global Projects and Tools
Committee - Frequent speaker at OWASP Conferences - Project Lead for the
OWASP JSP Testing Tool - Core Contributor to the OWASP AntiSamy Project

</div>



## Lindsay, David

<div align="left" style="float: left; margin: 0 4px 0 0; padding: 4px; border: 1px solid #aaa;">

![PicComingSoon.jpg](PicComingSoon.jpg "PicComingSoon.jpg")

</div>

<div style=“text-align:justify”>

David Lindsay is a Senior Security Consultant with Cigital. His primary
areas of interest include web application vulnerabilities, cryptography
and web standards. His primary area of disinterest is writing bios.

</div>



## Long, Jeremy

<div align="left" style="float: left; margin: 0 4px 0 0; padding: 4px; border: 1px solid #aaa;">

![PicComingSoon.jpg](PicComingSoon.jpg "PicComingSoon.jpg")

</div>

<div style=“text-align:justify”>

Jeremy Long is an Information Security Engineer for a large financial
institution. He has been involved in drafting secure coding policies,
delivering secure development training, and performing security code
reviews. He has a MS in Information Security from James Madison
University and currently holds the CISSP and GSSP-J certifications.

</div>



## Loureiro, Nuno

<div align="left" style="float: left; margin: 0 4px 0 0; padding: 4px; border: 1px solid #aaa;">

![PicComingSoon.jpg](PicComingSoon.jpg "PicComingSoon.jpg")

</div>

<div style=“text-align:justify”>

Nuno has a MSc in Information Technology - Information Security from
Carnegie Mellon University and currently works for SAPO where he's
leading the Security Team. Besides his passion for Security and Web
Security, he loves hiking and traveling.

</div>



## Luptak, Pavol

<div align="left" style="float: left; margin: 0 4px 0 0; padding: 4px; border: 1px solid #aaa;">

![PicComingSoon.jpg](PicComingSoon.jpg "PicComingSoon.jpg")

</div>

<div style=“text-align:justify”>

Pavol gained his MSc in Computer Science at the Czech Technical
University in Prague / Czech Republic with master thesis focused on
ultra-secure systems. He holds many prestigious security certifications
including CISSP and CEH, he is Slovak OWASP chapter leader, co-founder
of the first Slovak hackerspace Progressbar and Society for Open
Technologies (SOIT) where he is main responsible for IT security. Pavol
uses to have regular presentations at various worldwide security
conferences (in Netherlands, Luxembourg, Berlin, Warsaw, Krakow,
Prague). In the past, he demonstrated vulnerabilities in the public
transport SMS tickets in all major cities in Europe, together with his
colleague Norbert Szetei he practically demonstrated vulnerabilities in
Mifare Classic RFID cards. He has 14 years experience in IT security,
penetration testing and comprehensive OWASP security audits including
social engineering and digital forensic analysis. He is one of the
co-author of the OWASP Testing Guide v3, has a deep knowledge of the
OSSTMM, ISO17799/27001 and many years experience in seeking
vulnerabilities. At this time he is focused on web application
obfuscation and GSM security.

</div>



## Lyon, Chris

<div align="left" style="float: left; margin: 0 4px 0 0; padding: 4px; border: 1px solid #aaa;">

![PicComingSoon.jpg](PicComingSoon.jpg "PicComingSoon.jpg")

</div>

<div style=“text-align:justify”>

Chris Lyon is the Director of Infrastructure Security at Mozilla.

</div>



## Manico, Jim

<div align="left" style="float: left; margin: 0 4px 0 0; padding: 4px; border: 1px solid #aaa;">

![PicComingSoon.jpg](PicComingSoon.jpg "PicComingSoon.jpg")

</div>

<div style=“text-align:justify”>

Jim Manico is the producer and host of the OWASP Podcast Series. He is
also the project manager of the OWASP ESAPI project, a contributor to
the OWASP Cheat-sheet Series, the chair of the OWASP Connections
committee, and a member of the OWASP mobile project. Jim is currently an
independent Application Security Architect and Educator. He has 15 years
of experience developing Java‐based data‐driven web applications for
organization such as FoxMedia (MySpace), GE, CitiBank, Sun Microsystems
and Aspect Security. For more information, please see
<http://www.manico.net>. Jim has also provided Application Security
Developer Education services for Fortune 10, Government, and NGO
Institutions.

</div>



## Maor, Ofer

<div align="left" style="float: left; margin: 0 4px 0 0; padding: 4px; border: 1px solid #aaa;">

![PicComingSoon.jpg](PicComingSoon.jpg "PicComingSoon.jpg")

</div>

<div style=“text-align:justify”>

CTO, Hacktics, Chairman, OWASP Isarel Ofer Maor has over fifteen years
of experience in the Information Technology and Security. Mr. Maor is a
pioneer in the Application Security field: he has been involved in
leading research initiatives, has published numerous papers, appears
regularly at leading conferences and is considered a leading authority
by his peers. He also currently serves as the Chairman of OWASP Israel.
Before founding Hacktics, Mr. Maor led Imperva's Application Defense
Center, a research group focused on application security services and
education. In this capacity, he advanced research activities and was
responsible for all the application security services conducted by the
company. He was previously a Senior Security Consultant at eDvice, an
application security consulting firm, and served for three years as an
Information Security Officer in the Israeli Defense Forces.

</div>



## Mancini, Lucilla

<div align="left" style="float: left; margin: 0 4px 0 0; padding: 4px; border: 1px solid #aaa;">

![PicComingSoon.jpg](PicComingSoon.jpg "PicComingSoon.jpg")

</div>

<div style=“text-align:justify”>

Degree in Economics and large experience in finance, trading and
derivatives. Later I joined this experience with ICT matters; and now
after having worked for some years for Getronics both in Italy and in
worldwide groups, now I lead in Business-e e the consulting team of
about 25 persons. Main activities are in Governance, Audit and Ethical
hacking with a group of 10 testers. My main certificates are Cisa, Lead
auditor ISO27001, Itil v3, CRISC , Cobit

</div>



## Martinez, Mateo

<div align="left" style="float: left; margin: 0 4px 0 0; padding: 4px; border: 1px solid #aaa;">

![PicComingSoon.jpg](PicComingSoon.jpg "PicComingSoon.jpg")

</div>

<div style=“text-align:justify”>

Many years of experience in a variety of challenging Senior Information
Security, Risk Management, Business Continuity Planning and Consultancy
roles. Up to the moment I have been working at Tata Consultancy Services
as the Information Security Manager since 2007. I´m in charge of the
Information Security Area, Implementing ISO 27001, Internal Audit,
Security Incidents Management, Architecture & Design Review, Penetration
Testing, Software Security for Latinamerican region and in charge of the
Advisory of Security Services department. I´m CISSP. BCP and Information
Security projects executed in Chicago, US and in Dubai, UAE. I have
previous experience working in PricewaterhouseCoopers as a Senior BCP
Consultant. I have realized business continuity plans for many of our
clients.

</div>



## Martorella, Christian

<div align="left" style="float: left; margin: 0 4px 0 0; padding: 4px; border: 1px solid #aaa;">

![PicComingSoon.jpg](PicComingSoon.jpg "PicComingSoon.jpg")

</div>

<div style=“text-align:justify”>

Christian Martorella has been working in the field of information
security for the last 10 years, starting his career in Argentina IRS as
security consultant, now he's Practice Leader in Threat and
Vulnerability - EMEA in Verizon Business. He is cofounder an active
member of Edge-Security team, where security tools and research is
released. He has been speaker at What The Hack\!, NoConName, FIST
Conferences, OWASP Summit 2008 and OWASP Spain IV & VI, Source
Conference Barcelona and Hack.LU. Christian has contributed with open
source assessment tools like OWASP WebSlayer and Metagoofil. He likes
all related to Information Gathering and Penetration testing. Christian
currently holds the President position at the FIST Conferences board,
and in the past taught Ethical Hacking at the IT Security Master of La
Salle University.

</div>



## Matatall, Neil

<div align="left" style="float: left; margin: 0 4px 0 0; padding: 4px; border: 1px solid #aaa;">

![PicComingSoon.jpg](PicComingSoon.jpg "PicComingSoon.jpg")

</div>

<div style=“text-align:justify”>

Neil Matatall is a Consultant for FishNet Security as part of the
Applicaiton Security team. After starting off as a developer, Neil was
asked to investigate application security and he hasn't looked back
since. In OWASP, Neil has been a conference organizer (AppSec US 2010
and AppSec Academia '09), chapter leader (Orange County), project
committer (ESAPI), and global conference committee member.

</div>



## McGeehan, Ryan

<div align="left" style="float: left; margin: 0 4px 0 0; padding: 4px; border: 1px solid #aaa;">

![PicComingSoon.jpg](PicComingSoon.jpg "PicComingSoon.jpg")

</div>

<div style=“text-align:justify”>

Internet threat generalist with a research background. Currently
managing the Security Incident Response team at Facebook, handling all
high severity security incidents. Specialties - Phishing, Botnets, Spam,
Social Networks, Social Media, Security Team Building, Security
Community Engagement, Security Strategy, Security Investigations,
Security Management, Web pplication Security, Startup Security

</div>



## Melo, Ricardo

<div align="left" style="float: left; margin: 0 4px 0 0; padding: 4px; border: 1px solid #aaa;">

![PicComingSoon.jpg](PicComingSoon.jpg "PicComingSoon.jpg")

</div>

<div style=“text-align:justify”>

I'm the CTO at DRI, a Portuguese company focused on on open source
environments. I have +10 years working with Linux and open source
technologies like PHP and Mysql. I've been involved on a large number of
projects, both web and non web applications, from small sized to +100
computer clusters both as developer, system administrator and software
architect.

</div>



## Mendo, Tiago

<div align="left" style="float: left; margin: 0 4px 0 0; padding: 4px; border: 1px solid #aaa;">

![PicComingSoon.jpg](PicComingSoon.jpg "PicComingSoon.jpg")

</div>

<div style=“text-align:justify”>

I've worked in the security area for a few years, mostly in network
security doing traffic analysis and network reverse engineering. I'm a
member of the Portuguese Honeynet Project and I'm currently working for
SAPO, which is the most visited site in Portugal, in the Web Security
team.

</div>



## Meucci, Matteo

<div align="left" style="float: left; margin: 0 4px 0 0; padding: 4px; border: 1px solid #aaa;">

![PicComingSoon.jpg](PicComingSoon.jpg "PicComingSoon.jpg")

</div>

<div style=“text-align:justify”>

Matteo has undergraduate degrees in Computer Science Engineering from
the University of Bologna (Italy). He is the OWASP-Italy Founder and
Chair from January 2005 (http://www.owasp.org/index.php/Italy), leads
the new OWASP Testing Guide from 2006
(http://www.owasp.org/index.php/OWASP_Testing_Project), and he is
starting the OWASP Common Vulnerability list with Anurag Agarwal and
Eoin Keary
(http://www.owasp.org/index.php/OWASP_Common_Vulnerability_List). He
is one of contributor of OWASP SAMM (http://www.opensamm.org). He holds
CISSP, CISA certification, Matteo is the CEO and a cofounder of Minded
Security, an Application Security Consulting Company, with more than 10
years of specializing in information security and collaborates from
several years at the OWASP project. Matteo is invited as speaker at many
events all around the world talking about Web Application Security.

</div>



## Montero, David

<div align="left" style="float: left; margin: 0 4px 0 0; padding: 4px; border: 1px solid #aaa;">

![PicComingSoon.jpg](PicComingSoon.jpg "PicComingSoon.jpg")

</div>

<div style=“text-align:justify”>

David is CISA, CISM and CRISC by ISACA, as well as the only one degree
ISMS Lead Auditor issued by IRCA in Spain. He is the founder of
OWASP-Andalucia chapter in Spain
(http://www.owasp.org/index.php/Andalucia), and founder of Grupo
iSoluciones, group of companies specialized in information security with
presence in Spain and Uruguay. His interest areas are pentesting and
cyberwar, where write articles and essays with the alias "Raistlin".

</div>



## Nagra, Jasvir

<div align="left" style="float: left; margin: 0 4px 0 0; padding: 4px; border: 1px solid #aaa;">

![PicComingSoon.jpg](PicComingSoon.jpg "PicComingSoon.jpg")

</div>

<div style=“text-align:justify”>

Jasvir Nagra is a researcher and software engineer at Google. He is one
of the designers and developers of Caja - a secure subset of HTML, CSS
and JavaScript; co-author of Surreptitious Software - a book on
obfuscation, software watermarking and tamper-proofing; contributer to
Shindig - the reference implementation of OpenSocial; and an escaped
perl hacker.

</div>



## Neaves, Tom

<div align="left" style="float: left; margin: 0 4px 0 0; padding: 4px; border: 1px solid #aaa;">

![PicComingSoon.jpg](PicComingSoon.jpg "PicComingSoon.jpg")

</div>

<div style=“text-align:justify”>

Tom "c0redump" Neaves M.Sc, B.Sc (Hons) is a Principal Security
Consultant at Verizon Business (formerly NetSec) where he is part of the
Threat and Vulnerability Consulting EMEA Practice. Tom is also studying
for a Ph.D in Information Security on a part-time basis back at Royal
Holloway, University of London. Anything that speaks HTTP or gets
transmitted over the air has his full attention\!

</div>



## Paiva, Sandra

<div align="left" style="float: left; margin: 0 4px 0 0; padding: 4px; border: 1px solid #aaa;">

![PicComingSoon.jpg](PicComingSoon.jpg "PicComingSoon.jpg")

</div>

<div style=“text-align:justify”>

I have assumed, in October 2010, the position of OWASP Training Manager
and will be responsible for managing the OWASP ‘Chapter-lead’ Training
activities and operationalising the concept of 'OWASP Academies'.
Throughout this process, I will be managed by Dinis Cruz and report
directly to the OWASP Board. I was, up to the end of July 2010, Head of
Customer Relationship Management (CRM) for Europe, Middle East and
Africa at the Mergermarket Group (part of the Financial Times Group),
having joined the company in July 2007 as a CRM Executive. I have a
graduate degree in Statistics and Management of Information and a
post-graduate degree in the same area. Before joining Mergermarket, I
worked for two years at Dealogic on the Mergers & Acquisitions and Loan
Markets products. Prior to moving to London in 2004, I have worked in
several universities in Portugal where I firstly, for roundly half a
dozen of years, taught Maths and Statistics and thereafter, throughout
an academic year, worked in the conceptualization, development and
production of materials to support academic and scientific events and in
the creation of methodologies to repackage contents and support academic
and scientific activity.

</div>



## Pegorelli, Marta

<div align="left" style="float: left; margin: 0 4px 0 0; padding: 4px; border: 1px solid #aaa;">

![PicComingSoon.jpg](PicComingSoon.jpg "PicComingSoon.jpg")

</div>

<div style=“text-align:justify”>

Dr Konstantinos Papapanagiotou has more than 7 years of experience in
the field of Information Security both as a corporate consultant and as
a researcher. Currently, he is Information Security Risk Management
Services Manager of Syntax IT Inc and leader of the OWASP Greek Chapter.
He holds a BSc from the Department of Informatics and
Telecommunications, University of Athens, an MSc with distinction in
Information Security from Royal Holloway, University of London and a PhD
in Information and Network Security from the Department of Informatics
and Telecommunications, University of Athens. He is the author of more
than 10 scientific publications. He is a member of the ACM, IEEE and
also a founding member of the Institute of Information Security
Professionals (IISP). His current research interests are in the areas of
application security, trust and security in pervasive and ubiquitous
computing and steganography.

</div>



## Perego, Paolo

<div align="left" style="float: left; margin: 0 4px 0 0; padding: 4px; border: 1px solid #aaa;">

![PicComingSoon.jpg](PicComingSoon.jpg "PicComingSoon.jpg")

</div>

<div style=“text-align:justify”>

Paolo was born in 1976 in Milan, Italy. Since he was 5, he started
disassembling toys trying to understand their internals... it was very
rare he was able to put the pieces back in their place. So his infancy
was full of broken toys... but at least he discovered what's inside a
little car moving by itself. Let's call this Paolo's life phase:
'Breaking the law' When he discovered computers, Paolo learnt also to
repair software he broke. He started patching buffer overflows, format
bugs and other crappy C programs. It was 1996, he discovered Linux, the
networking and the kernel land. It was the time Pink Floyd were in loop
in Paolo's walkman. Let's call this Paolo's life phase: 'So your
instruction pointer is full of 0x41?'Nowadays Paolo's interest in
reviewing and fixing broken code turn him in an application security
specialist. He wrote software for an Italian web agency, and he has a
side project as Independent Software Vendor as armoredcode.com. He is
involved in Owasp as Project Leader of Owasp Orizon (a code review
engine) and Owasp ESAPI for Ruby porting. He is also in the Owasp
Italian chapter board. It's the time that Pearl Jam and old school metal
music fill Paolo's mp3 player, he is a husband, a proud father, a
guitarist and he is close from being black belt Taekwon-do ITF martial
artists. Let's call this Paolo's life phase: 'Stay hungry, stay foolish'

</div>



## Potjes, Linda

<div align="left" style="float: left; margin: 0 4px 0 0; padding: 4px; border: 1px solid #aaa;">

![PicComingSoon.jpg](PicComingSoon.jpg "PicComingSoon.jpg")

</div>

<div style=“text-align:justify”>

Linda, from the Netherlands, is a Java Programmer in daily life. Living
with an active OWASP member, she's been visiting a lot of conferences ,
slowly getting more and more interested in security.This week, she's on
the support team for the OWASP summit, helping out with whatever needs
to be done.

</div>



## Reinhart, Ralf

<div align="left" style="float: left; margin: 0 4px 0 0; padding: 4px; border: 1px solid #aaa;">

![PicComingSoon.jpg](PicComingSoon.jpg "PicComingSoon.jpg")

</div>

<div style=“text-align:justify”>

OWASP member and senior consultant focused on web application security
living in Munich, Germany. You can find some more specific information
at my Xing.com's profile.

I'm organizing once a month the "OWASP regular's table" in Munich,
Germany. You might want to have a look at the Stammtisch-Initiative if
you are visiting Germany, being fed up with Neuschwanstein and alike and
seeking for some nerdy tech talk in combination with Bavarian beer
consumption tradition ;-)

Founder of Sic\!Sec

</div>



## Richler, Heiko

<div align="left" style="float: left; margin: 0 4px 0 0; padding: 4px; border: 1px solid #aaa;">

![PicComingSoon.jpg](PicComingSoon.jpg "PicComingSoon.jpg")

</div>

<div style=“text-align:justify”>

Georg Simon Ohm University of Applied Sciences. OWASP University Chapter

</div>



## Rohr, Mathias

<div align="left" style="float: left; margin: 0 4px 0 0; padding: 4px; border: 1px solid #aaa;">

![PicComingSoon.jpg](PicComingSoon.jpg "PicComingSoon.jpg")

</div>

<div style=“text-align:justify”>

Enter bio here.

</div>



## Ross, David

<div align="left" style="float: left; margin: 0 4px 0 0; padding: 4px; border: 1px solid #aaa;">

![PicComingSoon.jpg](PicComingSoon.jpg "PicComingSoon.jpg")

</div>

<div style=“text-align:justify”>

David Ross is a Principal Security Software Engineer on the MSRC
Engineering team at Microsoft. Prior to joining MSRC Engineering in
2002, David spent his formative years on the Internet Explorer Security
Team and wears the battle scars with pride. David’s blog:
<http://blogs.msdn.com/dross>

</div>



## Roth-Mandutz, Elke

<div align="left" style="float: left; margin: 0 4px 0 0; padding: 4px; border: 1px solid #aaa;">

![PicComingSoon.jpg](PicComingSoon.jpg "PicComingSoon.jpg")

</div>

<div style=“text-align:justify”>

I am working as research assistant at the Georg-Simon-Ohm University of
Applied Sciences in Nuremberg, Germany. The research project started in
September 2010 with the objection to detect and evaluate the privacy
impact of web-sites based on client-side analysis. The privacy impact
should be made user visible.

Prior to the research project, I worked for many years in the mobile
communication sector, mostly as system engineer for GSM and UMTS
infrastructure.

</div>



## Saario, Mikko

<div align="left" style="float: left; margin: 0 4px 0 0; padding: 4px; border: 1px solid #aaa;">

![PicComingSoon.jpg](PicComingSoon.jpg "PicComingSoon.jpg")

</div>

<div style=“text-align:justify”>

\* Working in a complex and diversified mobile/web environment.

  - Member of the board (in 2007) in the Finnish Information Security
    Association i.e. Tietoturva ry (www.tietoturva.org).
  - Founded and chaired the OWASP Helsinki Chapter (www.owasp.org).

</div>



## Samuel, Michael

<div align="left" style="float: left; margin: 0 4px 0 0; padding: 4px; border: 1px solid #aaa;">

![PicComingSoon.jpg](PicComingSoon.jpg "PicComingSoon.jpg")

</div>

<div style=“text-align:justify”>

Mike Samuel is an engineer in Google's Applied Security group working on
programming language based approaches to web application security. He is
involved in the EcmaScript standards process and is one of the
implementors of Caja, a system that allows for secure composition of web
applications using existing standards. Lately he has been working on
static type reasoning to make template languages robust against XSS.

</div>



## Schmidt, Chris

<div align="left" style="float: left; margin: 0 4px 0 0; padding: 4px; border: 1px solid #aaa;">

![PicComingSoon.jpg](PicComingSoon.jpg "PicComingSoon.jpg")

</div>

<div style=“text-align:justify”>

Christopher Schmidt: GIS and Web Hacker

I am a professional web application developer, and have spent the past
several years developing server and client side tools for the creation
of web applications, especially applications which relate to mapping.
Some of my most visible work over the past year is in the
OpenLayers/TileCache/FeatureServer stack, a collection of open source
tools designed to help users build mapping applications.

</div>



## Schuh, Justin

<div align="left" style="float: left; margin: 0 4px 0 0; padding: 4px; border: 1px solid #aaa;">

![PicComingSoon.jpg](PicComingSoon.jpg "PicComingSoon.jpg")

</div>

<div style=“text-align:justify”>

I've held a variety of different positions across the IT spectrum, with
most of my time focused on the security side of the industry. I like
interesting technical challenges solving unique problems.

Specialties: Software reverse engineering, security assessment, exploit
development. Software development on a wide range of languages,
platforms and technologies. Management of software development and
security consulting teams.

</div>



## Schwartz, Stephen

<div align="left" style="float: left; margin: 0 4px 0 0; padding: 4px; border: 1px solid #aaa;">

![PicComingSoon.jpg](PicComingSoon.jpg "PicComingSoon.jpg")

</div>

<div style=“text-align:justify”>

Enter bio here.

</div>



## Searle, Justin

<div align="left" style="float: left; margin: 0 4px 0 0; padding: 4px; border: 1px solid #aaa;">

![PicComingSoon.jpg](PicComingSoon.jpg "PicComingSoon.jpg")

</div>

<div style=“text-align:justify”>

Justin Searle is a Senior Security Analyst with InGuardians,
specializing in the penetration testing of web applications, networks,
and embedded devices, especially those pertaining to the Smart Grid.
Justin is an active member of ASAP-SG (Advanced Security Acceleration
Project for the Smart Grid) and led the Smart Grid Security Architecture
group in the creation of NIST Interagency Report 7628. Previously,
Justin served as JetBlue Airway’s IT Security Architect, and has taught
courses in hacking techniques, forensics, networking, and intrusion
detection for multiple universities and corporations. Justin has
presented at top security conferences including DEFCON, ToorCon,
ShmooCon, and SANS. Justin co-leads prominent open source projects
including the Samurai Web Testing Framework, Middler, Yokoso\!, and
Laudnum. Justin has an MBA in International Technology and is a CISSP
and SANS GIAC certified Incident Handler (GCIH), Intrusion Analyst
(GCIA), and Web Application Penetration Tester (GWAPT).

</div>



## Secker, Tanya

<div align="left" style="float: left; margin: 0 4px 0 0; padding: 4px; border: 1px solid #aaa;">

![PicComingSoon.jpg](PicComingSoon.jpg "PicComingSoon.jpg")

</div>

<div style=“text-align:justify”>

Application Security Specialist - Trustwave

</div>



## Serrao, Carlos

<div align="left" style="float: left; margin: 0 4px 0 0; padding: 4px; border: 1px solid #aaa;">

![PicComingSoon.jpg](PicComingSoon.jpg "PicComingSoon.jpg")

</div>

<div style=“text-align:justify”>

Assistant Professor at ISCTE-IUL (Lisbon University Institute)/SoTA
(School of Technology and Architecture)/DCTI, where I teach several
subjects related to Information Systems, Information Security, IT/IS
Project Management and Entrepreneurship (both on BSc and MSc programs).
ADETTI-IUL Researcher and Project Manager where I'm working mostly on
the following research topics: - Distributed Systems, Applications and
Information Security - Management and Protection of e-Intellectual
Property and e-Contents - Web-based and Mobile-based Information Systems
Projects. Experience in participation in multiple national and
international co-operation IT/IS projects and provision of consulting
services to different companies. OWASP.PT leader. Currently working to
evangelize OWASP good practices and OWASP mission in improving the web
applications security. Author. I'm the author and co-author of several
articles published on scientific conferences, proceedings, journals and
project deliverables. Also the co-author of one of the best selling
portuguese books about PHP programming. Geek. Love technology. Huge fan
of gadgets. OS agnostic. Linux, Mac OS X, Windows. Bring them all\!\!\!

</div>



## Stasinopoulos, Anastasios

<div align="left" style="float: left; margin: 0 4px 0 0; padding: 4px; border: 1px solid #aaa;">

![PicComingSoon.jpg](PicComingSoon.jpg "PicComingSoon.jpg")

</div>

<div style=“text-align:justify”>

Anastasios Stasinopoulos is a Certificated Network Administrator of
CompTIA (Computing Technology Industry Association) computer-security
enthusiast and also a hobbist penetration tester. He is basically deals
with Networking and Data Communications, Security as Fedora Security
Spin Contributor (http://fedoraproject.org/wiki/Security_Lab) and
Penetration testing. He is also the developer of a set of Hackademic
Challenges that anyone can practice for real world applications attacks
and penetration tests (http://hackademic.s3cure.gr).For more information
about Anastasios :
<http://www.owasp.org/index.php/User:Stasinopoulos_Anastasios>

</div>



## Sterne, Brandon

<div align="left" style="float: left; margin: 0 4px 0 0; padding: 4px; border: 1px solid #aaa;">

![PicComingSoon.jpg](PicComingSoon.jpg "PicComingSoon.jpg")

</div>

<div style=“text-align:justify”>

Brandon Sterne is the Security Program Manager at Mozilla where he works
on security releases and designs and implements browser security
features.

</div>



## Steven, John

<div align="left" style="float: left; margin: 0 4px 0 0; padding: 4px; border: 1px solid #aaa;">

![PicComingSoon.jpg](PicComingSoon.jpg "PicComingSoon.jpg")

</div>

<div style=“text-align:justify”>

John Steven is the Senior Director, Advanced Technology Consulting at
Cigital with over a decade of hands-on experience in software security.
John's expertise runs the gamut of software security from threat
modeling and architectural risk analysis, through static analysis (with
an emphasis on automation), to security testing. As a consultant, John
has provided strategic direction as a trusted advisor to many
multi-national corporations. John's keen interest in automation keeps
Cigital technology at the cutting edge. He has served as co-editor of
the Building Security In department of IEEE Security & Privacy magazine,
speaks with regularity at conferences and trade shows, and is the leader
of the Northern Virginia OWASP chapter. John holds a B.S. in Computer
Engineering and an M.S. in Computer Science both from Case Western
Reserve University.

</div>



## Su, Cecil

<div align="left" style="float: left; margin: 0 4px 0 0; padding: 4px; border: 1px solid #aaa;">

![PicComingSoon.jpg](PicComingSoon.jpg "PicComingSoon.jpg")

</div>

<div style=“text-align:justify”>

Ever since Cecil Su began working in the financial services industry,
his interest of information security (and especially of application
security) was stoked. For his extra-curricular activities after office
hours, he took every opportunity to learn about the craft. Now, ten
years on, Cecil’s day job is as a director of Grant Thornton LLP in
Singapore. As head of the Technology Advisory unit, he leads various
engagement teams on diversified projects across vertical industries. His
area of focus is in IT Assurance, IT Security Advisory and Digital
Forensics. Aside from being a committee member of the OWASP GEC, he has
also contributed to the OWASP Testing Guide, and coordinated efforts for
the internationalisation of Asian languages of OWASP materials. Cecil is
also the current Chapter Lead for the Singapore Honeynet Project, ExCo
member for the Association of Information Security Professionals (AISP),
and a member of the security Controls and Security Services Working
Group (Singapore representative body for ISO/IEC JTC 1/SC 27/WG 4).

</div>



## Tasar, Vehbi

<div align="left" style="float: left; margin: 0 4px 0 0; padding: 4px; border: 1px solid #aaa;">

![PicComingSoon.jpg](PicComingSoon.jpg "PicComingSoon.jpg")

</div>

<div style=“text-align:justify”>

Dr. Vehbi Tasar, CISSP, CSSLP, Director of Professional Programs
Development - Vehbi is in charge of all exam development at (ISC)². His
responsibilities include exam question and content development,
psychometric oversight of the exam questions, and maintenance of the
ANSI certification for all (ISC)² credentials. Vehbi has joined (ISC)²
in June 2008 to develop a new security credential called Certified
Secure Software Lifecycle Professional (CSSLP). Prior to joining (ISC)²,
Vehbi worked in software industry for over 30 years. He has a broad
spectrum of application development expertise ranging from high
performance computing to the database application development, and
distributed enterprise computing for the IT infrastructure. Vehbi holds
a B.S degree in Electrical Engineering from the Middle East Technical
University from his native Ankara, Turkey. He received a M.S degree in
Computer Science from the University of Missouri, Rolla, and a Doctor of
Engineering Degree in Electrical Engineering from the University of
Detroit, Mercy in Detroit, Michigan.

</div>



## Taylor, Jason

<div align="left" style="float: left; margin: 0 4px 0 0; padding: 4px; border: 1px solid #aaa;">

![PicComingSoon.jpg](PicComingSoon.jpg "PicComingSoon.jpg")

</div>

<div style=“text-align:justify”>

Chief Technology Officer, Secure Innovation Mr. Taylor leads the
strategic direction for all technology initiatives and manages
world-class development teams for the company's product lines. He has
spent his career focused on application development and testing with a
primary focus on application security. His unrivaled understanding of
application behavior provided the impetus for Security Innovation’s
industry pioneering fault injection tool, Holodeck Enterprise Edition,
and critical enhancements to the company’s internal testing and
development tools. Mr. Taylor was the visionary and designer of the
Company’s “Creating Secure Code” methodology and course which has been
taught to several of the world's largest technology organizations. Prior
to joining Security Innovation, Mr. Taylor served as test architect,
security lead and development manager at Microsoft for various releases
of Internet Explorer and Windows. He was the first member of the
Internet Explorer security test team, and as the security team lead, he
grew it from a solitary operation to the leading application security
test team at Microsoft. Later, he built the Test Model Toolkit which
became the standard model-based testing tool at Microsoft, winning a
Best Practice Award along the way. Mr. Taylor is an external reviewer,
contributor and primary author for Microsoft patterns & practices
security guidance. He has published several whitepapers including “Web
Services Risk Assessment and Recommendations” and “Security Threats:
Risks, Protection & Limitations" for CIO Update. He is co-author of
"Team Development with Visual Studio Team Foundation Server" and
“Improving Web Services Security” with J.D. Meier of Microsoft. Mr.
Taylor received his C.S. degree from Montana State University.

</div>



## Tesauro, Matt

<div align="left" style="float: left; margin: 0 4px 0 0; padding: 4px; border: 1px solid #aaa;">

![PicComingSoon.jpg](PicComingSoon.jpg "PicComingSoon.jpg")

</div>

<div style=“text-align:justify”>

Matt has been involved in the Information Technology industry for more
than 10 years. Prior to joining Praetorian, Matt was a Security
Consultant at Trustwave's Spider Labs. Matt's focus has been in
application security including testing, code reviews, design reviews and
training. His background in web application development and system
administration helped bring a holistic focus to Secure SDLC efforts he's
driven. He has taught both graduate level university courses and for
large financial institutions. Matt has presented and provided training a
various industry events including DHS Software Assurance Workshop,
AppSec EU, AppSec US, AppSec Academia, and AppSec Brazil. Matt is
currently on the board of the OWASP Foundation and highly involved in
many OWASP projects and committees. Matt is the project leader of the
OWASP WTE (Web Testing Environment) which is the source of the OWASP
Live CD Project and Virtual Machines pre-configured with tools and
documentation for testing web applications. Industry designations
include the Certified Information Systems Security Professional (CISSP)
and Certified Ethical Hacker (CEH). Matt Tesauro has a B.S. in Economics
and a M.S in Management Information Systems from Texas A\&M University.

</div>



## Thomas, Mark

<div align="left" style="float: left; margin: 0 4px 0 0; padding: 4px; border: 1px solid #aaa;">

![PicComingSoon.jpg](PicComingSoon.jpg "PicComingSoon.jpg")

</div>

<div style=“text-align:justify”>

Mark Thomas is a Staff Engineer with the SpringSource division of
VMware. The majority of Mark's time is spent on the development of
Apache Tomcat but he also provides expert Tomcat advice to the
SpringSource support team and he leads the SpringSource security team as
well as the integration of Tomcat with tc Server. Mark has been using
and developing Apache Tomcat for more than seven years. He became
involved in the development of Tomcat when he needed better control over
the SSL configuration than was available at the time. After fixing that
first Bugzilla issue, he started working his way through the remaining
Tomcat issues and is still going. Along the way, Mark became a Tomcat
committer and PMC member, undertook the majority of the Servlet 3.0, JSP
2.2 and EL 2.2 development for Tomcat 7, created the Tomcat security
pages, became a member of the ASF, joined the Apache Security Committee
and is an Apache Commons PMC member where he contributes to Commons
Pool, DBCP and Daemon. He is currently the Tomcat 7 release manager and
also helps maintain the ASF's Bugzilla and Jira instances. Mark has a
MEng in Electronic and Electrical Engineering from the University of
Birmingham, United Kingdom.

</div>



## Tomhave, Benjamin

<div align="left" style="float: left; margin: 0 4px 0 0; padding: 4px; border: 1px solid #aaa;">

![PicComingSoon.jpg](PicComingSoon.jpg "PicComingSoon.jpg")

</div>

<div style=“text-align:justify”>

Ben Tomhave is a Senior Security Analyst with Gemini Security Solutions
in Chantilly, VA, specializing in solutions architecture, security
planning, security program development and management, and other
strategic security solutions. Ben holds a Master of Science in
Information Security Management from The George Washington University.
He is a Certified Information Systems Security Professional (CISSP),
co-vice chair of the American Bar Association Information Security
Committee, member of ISSA, member of OWASP, and member of the IEEE
Computer Society. He is a published author and an experienced public
speaker. Prior to his current endeavor, Ben has worked in a variety of
security roles for companies including BT Professional Services, AOL,
Wells Fargo, ICSA Labs, and Ernst & Young.

</div>



## Turpin, Keith

<div align="left" style="float: left; margin: 0 4px 0 0; padding: 4px; border: 1px solid #aaa;">

![PicComingSoon.jpg](PicComingSoon.jpg "PicComingSoon.jpg")

</div>

<div style=“text-align:justify”>

Over the years I have held a number of positions at The Boeing Company
including: Application and Information Security Assessments team leader,
lead IT security adviser for international operations, supplier security
analyst, engineering systems integrator, software developer and senior
manufacturing engineer on the 747 airplane program.

• I represent Boeing at the International Committee for Information
Technology Standard's cyber security technical committee. • I represent
the United States as a delegate to the International Standards
Organization's (ISO) sub committee on cyber security. • I recently
joined the national Software Assurance (SwA) Working Group • I am the
Director of the HPPV Northwest regional engineering competition. • My
work with college engineering education led to a 2005 national award
from the American Society of Engineering Education. • You can see my
OWASP project on secure coding practices here:
<http://www.owasp.org/index.php/OWASP_Secure_Coding_Practices_-_Quick_Reference_Guide>
• The presentation on my OWASP project at AppSec USA 2010 can be found
here: <http://vimeo.com/17018329> • You can see the video of my AppSec
USA 2009 presentation on Building Security Assessment Teams here:
<http://vimeo.com/8989378>

2010 Accomplishments:

-----

\- Selected as Eastern Washington University's 2010 Distinguished Alumni
of the Year for service to the community - Launched new OWASP project:
Secure Coding Practices - Quick Reference Guide - Speaker at AppSec USA
- Speaker at OWASP DC - Speaker at the Department of Homeland Security's
Software Assurance Forum - Contributor to The Open Group white paper
"Trusted Technology Provider Framework"

</div>



## Tusha, Ervis

<div align="left" style="float: left; margin: 0 4px 0 0; padding: 4px; border: 1px solid #aaa;">

![PicComingSoon.jpg](PicComingSoon.jpg "PicComingSoon.jpg")

</div>

<div style=“text-align:justify”>

Enter bio here.

</div>



## UcedaVelez, Tony

<div align="left" style="float: left; margin: 0 4px 0 0; padding: 4px; border: 1px solid #aaa;">

![PicComingSoon.jpg](PicComingSoon.jpg "PicComingSoon.jpg")

</div>

<div style=“text-align:justify”>

Develop and lead strategic IT & IS solutions for businesses that seek to
mitigate IT operational and security risk through robust, cost effective
programs, while maintaining a strategic alignment to key business
objectives and providing overall value to the enterprise.

Specialties - Security Risk Management, Risk Assessment Methodologies,
Business Impact Analysis, Business Process Engineering, Maturity
Modeling, Security Training, Vulnerability Assessment, Policy
Management, Compliance Audits, Business Continuity Planning, Remediation
Management

</div>



## Uhley, Peleus

<div align="left" style="float: left; margin: 0 4px 0 0; padding: 4px; border: 1px solid #aaa;">

![PicComingSoon.jpg](PicComingSoon.jpg "PicComingSoon.jpg")

</div>

<div style=“text-align:justify”>

Platform Security Strategist at Adobe

</div>



## van der Baan, Steven

<div align="left" style="float: left; margin: 0 4px 0 0; padding: 4px; border: 1px solid #aaa;">

![PicComingSoon.jpg](PicComingSoon.jpg "PicComingSoon.jpg")

</div>

<div style=“text-align:justify”>

I'm Steven van der Baan. I'm a father of two (boy and girl) and I work
as a Software Architect and Security Consultant for Sogeti Nederland BV.
I am using computers already for 27 years, starting with the ZX81 where
I learned to program inside a memory of a whooping 1K. Every other
computer thereafter was a bundle of joy and adventure. This adventure is
something that I'm now trying to share with my kids. I started with
OWASP through Martin Knobloch, then a colleague of mine. He washosting
the CTF at Appsec DC 2009. He called me up due to some minor problems
and (ofcourse) I helped. This became somewhat regular that I took over
the project leadership form him of the CTF project.

</div>



## Vasilopoulos, Kyprianos

<div align="left" style="float: left; margin: 0 4px 0 0; padding: 4px; border: 1px solid #aaa;">

![PicComingSoon.jpg](PicComingSoon.jpg "PicComingSoon.jpg")

</div>

<div style=“text-align:justify”>

Senior Security Consultant Greece at Atos Origin

</div>



## Vela, Eduardo

<div align="left" style="float: left; margin: 0 4px 0 0; padding: 4px; border: 1px solid #aaa;">

![PicComingSoon.jpg](PicComingSoon.jpg "PicComingSoon.jpg")

</div>

<div style=“text-align:justify”>

WebAppSec Researcher (sirdarckcat)

Experienced web application security researcher, has assisted several
companies in the resolution of security issues like Adobe, Apple,
Google, Microsoft, Mozilla, Oracle, Symantec, between others.

Imparted courses and security conferences on DNS International,
Microsoft Bluehat V8 (October 2008), BlackHat USA (2009), XCon (2009),
BlackHat Europe (2010), OWASP day Mexico (2010), OWASP AppSec Sweeden
(2010) between others.

Knowledgeable on SQL, PHP, Python and Ruby for web development, and
C/C++ for application development with extreme caution on making fast
and efficient code, but must of all, secure.

He's also an enthusiast on Internet Culture and Social Networking
research, music, literature, as well as a fan on solving algorithmic
problems.

Specialties Web Application Security, Programming (C/C++, PHP, Java,
JavaScript, Python, Ruby, Batch/Bash, Perl)

</div>



## Vilares Da Silva, Luis

<div align="left" style="float: left; margin: 0 4px 0 0; padding: 4px; border: 1px solid #aaa;">

![PicComingSoon.jpg](PicComingSoon.jpg "PicComingSoon.jpg")

</div>

<div style=“text-align:justify”>

Luis Vilares da Silva worked in the Portuguese central statistics office
(INE) as systems and network engineer, software engineer from 1990 to
1999. Worked as a webmaster, web developer and software engineer in the
European police office (EUROPOL) in The Hague from 1999 to 2009. In that
period did his MSc in IT Security and CISSP certification, MS training
70-340 and is MSTS for SharePoint 2007. He did some audits and risk
mitigation in the finance systems in Portugal in 2010 and is back to The
Hague to work as a software architect within the Organisation for the
Prohibition of Chemical Weapons (OPCW) where he is trying to leverage
some security into the various developed and under development
applications. Last but not least, Luis is in the process of finalizing a
MSc in forensic computing sand cybercrime investigations from UCD Dublin
open to law enforcement only.

</div>



## Vlachos, Vasileios

<div align="left" style="float: left; margin: 0 4px 0 0; padding: 4px; border: 1px solid #aaa;">

![PicComingSoon.jpg](PicComingSoon.jpg "PicComingSoon.jpg")

</div>

<div style=“text-align:justify”>

Dr. Vasileios Vlachos is lecturer at the department of Computer Science
and Telecommunications of the Technological Educational Institutions
(TEI) of Larissa. He was a senior R & D engineer at the Research
Academic Computer Technology Institute (R.A.C.T.I.) of Patras, Greece.
He was a member of the Digital Awareness and Response to Threats (DART)
team of the Special Secretariat for Digital Planning of the Hellenic
Ministry of Economy and Finance. Dr. Vlachos holds a Diploma of
Engineering in Electronic & Computer Engineering from Technical
University of Crete, a MSc in Integrated Hardware and Software Systems
from the Department of Computer Engineering and Informatics of the
University of Patras and a PhD in Information Systems Security from the
Department of Management Science and Technology of Athens University of
Economics and Business. Dr. Vlachos has taught at the University of
Thessalia the University of Central Greece and the University of
Piraeus.

</div>



## Vroom, Ferdinand

<div align="left" style="float: left; margin: 0 4px 0 0; padding: 4px; border: 1px solid #aaa;">

![PicComingSoon.jpg](PicComingSoon.jpg "PicComingSoon.jpg")

</div>

<div style=“text-align:justify”>

Security Officer at Nationale-Nederlanden (ING)

</div>



## Watson, Colin

<div align="left" style="float: left; margin: 0 4px 0 0; padding: 4px; border: 1px solid #aaa;">

![PicComingSoon.jpg](PicComingSoon.jpg "PicComingSoon.jpg")

</div>

<div style=“text-align:justify”>

Colin Watson is a consultant and co-founder of Watson Hall Ltd. Colin
has a production and process engineering background, but has worked in
information systems for fourteen years, concentrating exclusively on web
application development, security and compliance. His work involves the
management of application risk, building security and privacy into
systems development and keeping abreast of relevant international
legislation and standards. He has a particular interest in creating user
trust in web systems and the relationships between security and
usability. Colin has spoken at several OWASP chapter meetings and
conferences on topics including web content accessibility guidelines,
the Open Software Assurance Maturity Model and AppSensor. He contributes
to a number of OWASP projects and is a member of the OWASP Global
Industry Committee, having been its chair for 2009-2010. He writes a
blog about web security, usability and design under the pseudonym
Clerkendweller. He holds a BSc in Chemical Engineering, and an MSc in
Computation from the University of Oxford.

</div>



## Weston, David

<div align="left" style="float: left; margin: 0 4px 0 0; padding: 4px; border: 1px solid #aaa;">

![PicComingSoon.jpg](PicComingSoon.jpg "PicComingSoon.jpg")

</div>

<div style=“text-align:justify”>

David Weston is a Security Engineer at Microsoft where he works on the
team responsible for the security testing of Windows. David previously
worked as a security consultant at a major defense contractor where
worked on projects for Department of Defense, Federal, and Enterprise
customers. He is an experienced security researcher and has presented at
numerous security conferences such as Blackhat and Defcon in addition to
discovering vulnerabilities in several major software packages.

</div>



## Wichers, Dave

<div align="left" style="float: left; margin: 0 4px 0 0; padding: 4px; border: 1px solid #aaa;">

![PicComingSoon.jpg](PicComingSoon.jpg "PicComingSoon.jpg")

</div>

<div style=“text-align:justify”>

Information Security consultant continuously since 1989. Current focus
area is in Application Security Consulting, including Developer
Training, Security Code Reviews, Application Penetration Testing,
Technology Selection, Security Policy Development, Infusing Security
into the Software Development Lifecycle, and the development of Standard
Security Controls. Particular expertise in Security of Web Applications.
Currently member of the OWASP Board, the OWASP Conferences Chair, and
coauthor and project lead of the OWASP Top Ten Most Critical Web
Application Security Vulnerabilities
(http://www.owasp.org/index.php?Top10). Early career focused on InfoSec
for DoD, including C\&A, Trusted Product Evaluations, Multilevel
Security, and Cross Domain Solutions (e.g., Guards) for product vendors,
large DoD integrators, and the NSA. Specialties - Application Security
Consulting (specialty focus on Web Application Security), Information
Security, Certification & Accreditation, Multilevel Security, Cross
Domain Solutions (Guards), Secure Software Development in Java

</div>



## Wilander, John

<div align="left" style="float: left; margin: 0 4px 0 0; padding: 4px; border: 1px solid #aaa;">

![PicComingSoon.jpg](PicComingSoon.jpg "PicComingSoon.jpg")

</div>

<div style=“text-align:justify”>

John Wilander is an application security researcher and consultant. He
is a partner and evangelist at Omegapoint, a consultancy firm based in
Sweden. John typically works as a security focused software developer.
Java and JavaScript are his languages of choice. After his Master's
degree in Computer Science and Engineering from Linköping University
(Sweden) and Nanyang Technological University (Singapore) he pursued a
PhD in application security. Last paper still pending but John's
research publications can be found at:
<http://www.ida.liu.se/~johwi/research_publications/> John started the
Swedish OWASP Chapter in 2007 and has since been leader and co-leader.
In 2010 he chaired the most successful OWASP AppSec EU conference so far
– OWASP AppSec Research 2010. John along with the Swedish chapter are
listed as contributors to OWASP Top 10 2010.

</div>



## Williams, Jeff

<div align="left" style="float: left; margin: 0 4px 0 0; padding: 4px; border: 1px solid #aaa;">

![PicComingSoon.jpg](PicComingSoon.jpg "PicComingSoon.jpg")

</div>

<div style=“text-align:justify”>

Jeff Williams is the founder and CEO of Aspect Security, specializing in
application security services including code review, penetration
testing, training, and eLearning. Jeff also serves as the volunteer
Chair of the Open Web Application Security Project (OWASP) where he has
made extensive contributions, including the Top Ten, WebGoat, Secure
Software Contract Annex, Enterprise Security API, Application Security
Verification Standard, OWASP Risk Rating Methodology, starting the
worldwide local chapters program, and starting the Rugged Software
movement. Jeff holds advanced degrees in psychology, computer science,
and human factors, and graduated cum laude from Georgetown Law. You can
contact Jeff at jeff.williams@aspectsecurity.com.

</div>



## Wilson, Doug

<div align="left" style="float: left; margin: 0 4px 0 0; padding: 4px; border: 1px solid #aaa;">

![PicComingSoon.jpg](PicComingSoon.jpg "PicComingSoon.jpg")

</div>

<div style=“text-align:justify”>

Doug Wilson is one of the co-chairs of the Washington DC OWASP chapter,
and one of the organizers of the OWASP AppSec DC conference in
Washington DC. He is a Principal Consultant for MANDIANT, a full service
security company based out of the Washington DC area. Doug has been
involved in information security for over a decade. He got his start in
the Web 1.0 dot-com years working for web hosting companies, and ended
up doing government contracting, with expertise in incident response and
multi-tiered application architecture. He currently supports government
contracts exploring ways of improving software assurance and confidence
in COTS software. He has spoken at a wide variety of professional events
in Washington DC, including Shmoocon, and the High Confidence Software
and Systems (HCSS) conference.

</div>



## Wuensch, Stefan

<div align="left" style="float: left; margin: 0 4px 0 0; padding: 4px; border: 1px solid #aaa;">

![PicComingSoon.jpg](PicComingSoon.jpg "PicComingSoon.jpg")

</div>

<div style=“text-align:justify”>

Starting as soon as he could grip a screwdriver, Stefan spent his
formative years hacking and tinkering with anything run by electricity.
Later Stefan joined the Boston-area hacker group L0pht, and was a member
for five years. In 1998 Stefan and the other L0pht members testified
before the United States Senate as part of a series of hearings on "Weak
Computer Security in Government: Is the Public at Risk?" For the past 13
years Stefan has been working at Harvard University where he has been
involved with security, high-performance research computing, networking,
and systems infrastructure. His current role is Senior UNIX Engineer.

</div>



## Wysopal, Chris

<div align="left" style="float: left; margin: 0 4px 0 0; padding: 4px; border: 1px solid #aaa;">

![PicComingSoon.jpg](PicComingSoon.jpg "PicComingSoon.jpg")

</div>

<div style=“text-align:justify”>

Chris Wysopal, Veracode’s CTO and Co-Founder, is responsible for the
company’s software security analysis capabilities. In 2008 he was named
one of InfoWorld's Top 25 CTO's and one of the 100 most influential
people in IT by eWeek. One of the original vulnerability researchers and
a member of L0pht Heavy Industries, he has testified on Capitol Hill in
the US on the subjects of government computer security and how
vulnerabilities are discovered in software. He is the author of “The Art
of Software Security Testing” published by Addison-Wesley.

</div>



## Yeo, John

<div align="left" style="float: left; margin: 0 4px 0 0; padding: 4px; border: 1px solid #aaa;">

![PicComingSoon.jpg](PicComingSoon.jpg "PicComingSoon.jpg")

</div>

<div style=“text-align:justify”>

John Yeo is Director of Trustwave’s SpiderLabs for the EMEA region.
SpiderLabs, one of the world’s largest global security practices, is the
advanced security division within Trustwave. SpiderLabs is focused on
application security, incident response, penetration testing, physical
security and security research. At Trustwave John is responsible for
managing the various SpiderLabs teams and all aspects of service
delivery within the EMEA region.

</div>



## Zusman, Mike

<div align="left" style="float: left; margin: 0 4px 0 0; padding: 4px; border: 1px solid #aaa;">

![PicComingSoon.jpg](PicComingSoon.jpg "PicComingSoon.jpg")

</div>

<div style=“text-align:justify”>

Michael Zusman is a Managing Principal Consultant with the Intrepidus
Group. At Intrepidus, his focus is on assisting clients in architecting
secure mobile solutions and applications for various platforms including
iOS, Android, and RIM. Prior to joining Intrepidus Group, Mike has held
the positions of Escalation Engineer at Microsoft, Security Program
Manager at Automatic Data Processing, and lead architect & developer at
a number of smaller firms. In addition to his corporate experience, Mike
is an independent security researcher, and has responsibly disclosed a
number of critical vulnerabilities to commercial software vendors and
other clients. He has spoken about mobile application security at a
number of top industry events including Black Hat, CanSecWest, OWASP
meetings and at local colleges including Polytechnic University. Mike
brings 12 years of security, technology, and business experience to
Intrepidus Group. He has attained the CISSP certification, and is a
co-leader of the OWASP Mobile Security Project.

</div>