1.  REDIRECT [:Projects_Summit_2013](:Projects_Summit_2013 "wikilink")

__NOTOC__

<span style="color:red">This page is now out dated. 2013 Summit plans
were cancelled in mid-2012, and have not picked up again.</span>

<font size=2pt>

# Welcome

OWASP Leaders,

Many of you assisted with, attended, or at least heard about the success
of the 2011 OWASP Global Summit ([Summit Report
PDF](http://sl.owasp.org/summit2011_finalreport)) ([Results wiki
page](Summit_2011_Outcomes "wikilink")). As 2011 draws to a close and
the Global Conference Committee looks to the future, we are looking for
a group of volunteers interested in forming the planning team for the
next Global Summit which is projected for 2013.

The Bi-Annual OWASP Global Summit is the place where application
security experts meet to discuss plans, projects and solutions for the
future of application security. The Summit is not a conference - there
are no talks or training seminars. Rather, it is an opportunity to do
actual work to further the field of application security.
Participants will stay in shared accommodations and collaborate to
produce tangible progress towards influencing standards, developing
tools, establishing roadmaps, and setting the tone for OWASP and
application security for the coming years.

**WHEN**:
February 16-21st 2013

**WHERE**:
Liberty of the Seas (Ft. Lauderdale, FL)

**COST**:
There are a variety of stateroom categories available but the venue will
be approximately $1000 all-inclusive, including room service and all
your other shipboard needs.

**Example daily schedule:**

`Morning - 9am: Open seating breakfast`
`9 - 12: Sessions in one of our 5 meeting rooms`
`12 - 1: Team lunch`
`1 - 5: Additional sessions in one of our 5 meeting rooms`
`6 - 8: Time for groups to meet for informal gatherings/sessions in the meeting rooms or in other facilities around the ship`
`8 - 9: Team dinner`
`9 - 11: Evening networking activities`

`24/7:`
`*Coder's Den: Dedicated space to group/team code development for OWASP projects (we will have onboard source code repositories as well)`
`*Facilitated ad-hoc meetings at various spaces around the ship`

**VENUE:**
We realize you might have some concerns about the venue. Believe it or
not modern cruise ships have full conference centers on board (state of
the art AV, facilities and even air walls), robust internet connections,
and amazing food. Also, because of the fixed cost, there is no worrying
about ordering a steak at dinner (in fact, you can have 2 if you want),
it's all included in the price of attendance. A growing number of
organizations and conferences are choosing ship venues for their next
event. The conference ship option is actually less expensive per person
the 2011 summit in Lisbon and we will actually have MORE bandwidth at
sea than we had at the CampoReal venue\! Additionally, they offer a
level of seclusion not available on any land based venue allowing
attendees to focus and be productive while still providing ample
opportunities to network and meet new people from the community

The initial tasks for the 2013 Summit Planning Team will be sending out
a call for venue proposals, developing an event budget, and reaching out
to some of the various communities and companies that may be interested
in participating. If you are interested in being part of the initial
planning team - please email <owasp-summit-2013@owasp.org>
(alternatively [Mark Bristow](mailto:mark.bristow@owasp.org) or [Sarah
Baso](http://sl.owasp.org/contactus)), who will work with getting the
planning team and organize a planning meeting for early 2012.

We look forward to hearing from you with your interest\!

# Venue

# Planning Meetings

## Next Meeting

Our next planning call will be in mid-February, date and Time TBA

**GoToMeeting Information**

Please join my meeting: <https://www3.gotomeeting.com/join/191950406>

Use your microphone and speakers (VoIP) - a headset is recommended. Or,
call in using your telephone.

Australia: +61 (0) 2 8014 4934

Austria: +43 (0) 7 2088 1399

Belgium: +32 (0) 38 08 1855

Canada: +1 (416) 900-1164

Denmark: +45 (0) 69 91 88 61

Finland: +358 (0) 942 41 5777

France: +33 (0) 182 880 455

Germany: +49 (0) 898 7806 6460

Ireland: +353 (0) 14 845 975

Italy: +39 0 699 36 98 80

Netherlands: +31 (0) 708 912 514

New Zealand: +64 (0) 9 909 7882

Norway: +47 21 03 58 95

Spain: +34 931 81 6668

Sweden: +46 (0) 852 503 498

Switzerland: +41 (0) 435 0167 07

United Kingdom: +44 (0) 203 535 0622

United States: +1 (786) 358-5411

**Access Code: 191-950-406**

Audio PIN: Shown after joining the meeting

**Meeting ID: 191-950-406**

GoToMeeting® Online Meetings Made Easy™

### Previous Meetings

  - January 30, 2012 [Meeting
    Minutes](https://docs.google.com/a/owasp.org/document/d/1gSJQZz2wK6RrA6IgGnE83o_Dm4TuLVkL65HnmXXLadc/edit?hl=en_US)
  - January 16, 2012 [Meeting
    Minutes](https://docs.google.com/a/owasp.org/document/d/1DdnP1vh77ls1O8f6FOFD3zmztiZEpAnqcg_mDCdaNQ0/edit?hl=en_US)

# Topics

What would you like to see discussed or worked on at the next OWASP
Summit?

  - Please post your suggestions here...
  - Framework Security
  - Rugged Computing
  - Critical Infrastructure Applications
  - ...
  - ...

# Links

## Info about the 2011 Summit

[Event Wiki Page](Summit_2011 "wikilink")
[Summit 2011 Outcomes](Summit_2011_Outcomes "wikilink")
[Summit 2011 Final Report](http://sl.owasp.org/summit2011_finalreport) -
includes summary of planning, budget, and outcomes

## Info about the 2009 Summit

[Summit 2009](Summit_2009 "wikilink") - Occurred as part of AppSec DC
2009

## Info about the 2008 Summit

[OWASP EU Summit 2008](OWASP_EU_Summit_2008 "wikilink")

# FAQ

Q: How was the venue selected?

A: Details for how the venue was selected can be found
[here](Summit_2013/selection_process "wikilink")

Q: What is the budget for this event?

A: Details for the budget as well as a comparison to previous summits
can be found [here](Summit_2013/budget "wikilink")

Q: Will we have internet onboard?

A: Yes. The ship is equipped with satellite internet connections. At a
minimum we will have a 2.5/2.5 mbps line to support video streaming and
remote participation. There will be some latency (600ms - 650ms) on this
connection but should be manageable.

# Budget

# Selection Process

</font> <headertabs />