## News & Updates

If you are a current, previous or prospective OWASP member, please help
us by completing the following brief survey:

<http://mcaf.ee/g7u5an>

## Next Meeting

**Topic:** Passive Forensic Analysis of Mossack Fonseca Hack (Panama
Papers)

**Date/Time:** Tuesday April 18th, 2017 noon-1:30pm

**Location:** TBD + GoToMeeting

**Presenter:** Colette Chamberland (Sr. Security Analyst at WordFence)

**Presentation Details:** In this presentation, Colette will show how
she was able to conduct passive forensic analysis on the Panama Papers
hack and determine the most likely attack vector which led to one of the
largest breach in history. The data breach has so far brought down the
Prime Minister of Iceland and surrounded Russian President Putin and
British Prime Minister David Cameron with controversy, among other
famous public figures. It is the largest data breach to journalists in
history, weighing in at 2.6 terabytes and 11.5 million documents.

## Previous Meetings

**Topic:** Trends in Web Application Security Vulnerabilities

**Date/Time:** Tuesday June 6th, 2017 noon-1:30pm

**Location:** GoToMeeting

**Presenter:** Michel Chamberland (Principal Security
Consultant/Penetration Tester at Trustwave SpiderLabs)

**Presentation Details:** In this presentation, Michel will leverage the
Trustwave SpiderLabs team’s experience conducting a large volume of web
application security assessments and share trends on web application
vulnerabilities. SpiderLabs is an elite team of over 150 information
security professionals distributed across the globe who conduct web
application security assessments on an ongoing basis across all vertical
markets. The team performs many thousands of web application security
assessments every year. During this presentation, trends and statistics
in web application vulnerabilities as observed by the SpiderLabs team
will be reviewed. The most commonly found vulnerabilities will then be
discussed at a high level as to what they are, why they are important
and how they are often mitigated.

**Topic:** Super blind attacks and out of band resource load/service
interaction

**Date/Time:** Thursday March 24,2016 noon-1:30pm

**Location:** GoToMeeting

**Presenter:** Michel Chamberland (Sr. Application Security
Consultant/Penetration Tester at Trustwave SpiderLabs)

**Presentation Details:** In this presentation, we'll be reviewing super
blind attacks which used to be conducted mostly manually but are now
making their way into automated tools. Some of the attacks covered will
be super blind sql injection, blind cross site scripting, server side
request forgery as well as other related attacks. These attack vectors
being commoditize have the potential to expose organizations to a new
level of threats that was not as commonly and easily exploited in the
past.

**Topic:** Social Engineering Trends and Tactics (In conjunction with
Suncoast Security Society)

**Date/Time:** February 15, 2012 @ 6:00pm

**Location:** The Community Foundation of Sarasota County (2635
Fruitville Road Sarasota, FL 34237)

**Presenter:** Brian Jack (Director of Security Research at KnowBe4,
President iAssault Technologies)

**Presentation Details:** Trends in cyber warfare show that attacks
involving social engineering are on the rise. Large organizations and
governments are not the only ones being targetted; the bad guys are
equal opportunists and are going after small and medium sized
enterprises. Recent research involving social engineering attacks shows
most organizations are vulnerable to very simple scams. How are these
bad guys getting in, and why are they so successful? What is the
industry currently doing to prevent these attacks? What are some simple
things you can do to better protect your organization? This presentation
aims to answer those questions and give a more detailed look at social
engineering tactics that are currently affecting today's enterprises.

Pizza and drinks will be provided, come out, tell your friends, and
support the group.

**Topic:** Injection Attacks: \#1 and still going strong (In conjunction
with Suncoast Security Society)

**Date/Time:** June 14, 2011 @ 6:00pm

**Location:** The Community Foundation of Sarasota County (2635
Fruitville Road Sarasota, FL 34237)

**Presenter:** Steve Carter

**Presentation Details:** Injection attacks are \#1 on the OWASP Top Ten
list of application vulnerabilities. This session will start with an
in-depth explanation of what injections attacks are why they have
managed to capture \#1 spot in the Top Ten. Using various OWASP and open
source tools we will then demonstrate how one discovers, executes and
defends against injection attacks.

**Topic:** How To Hack Companies and Make Millions - In conjunction with
Suncoast Security Society

**Date/Time:** February 16, 2011 @ 6:00pm

**Location:** The Community Foundation of Sarasota County (2635
Fruitville Road Sarasota, FL 34237)

**Presenter:** Chris Hadnagey

**Presentation Details:** Offensive Security wants to take you on a
non-stop thrill ride through an actual hack. From Information Gathering,
Social Engineering and Client Side Exploitation we will show you the
complete and total domination of the target. This session will showcase
the skills that are taught in Offensive Security’s world-renowned
courses as well as our Penetration Testing services. Our goal is raise
awareness of the real world threats that exist in corporate business
today.

**Topic:** Security Assertion Markup Language (SAML) - in conjunction
with the Sarasota Java Users Group (Sunjug)

**Date/Time:** February 24, 2010

**Location:** The Community Foundation of Sarasota County (2635
Fruitville Road Sarasota, FL 34237)

**Presenter:** Steve Goldsmith

**Presentation Details:** SAML is an XML-based standard for exchanging
authentication and authorization data between security domains, that is,
between an identity provider (a producer of assertions) and a service
provider (a consumer of assertions). SAML is a product of the OASIS
Security Services Technical Committee.

Since there are many facets to SAML Steve will give a brief overview of
SAML and then jump right into a real world scenario using a service
provider. The service provider will accept an encrypted and signed
assertion from an external entity which will be decrypted and have its
attributes revealed. This can be used to integrate an external entities'
SSO system into legacy web applications without the need to implement
expensive and complex federated security solutions like SIteMinder, etc.

Steve has built the code using OpenSAML for encryption and signing
assertions as well to allow end to end testing using Apache Http Client.
He will cover topics all the way down to creating RSA key pairs in a
Java key store using keytool, so in essence this is a complete solution.
The talk will not be covering SSO solutions like JOSSO as this is
perhaps better covered at a later date.

See more details and RSVP
[here](http://www.codetown.us/events/sarasota-java-users-group-2)

**Date/Time:** October 29, 2009 - 6:00pm

**Location:** Gevity HR in Lakewood Ranch (9000 Town Center Pkwy,
Lakewood Ranch, FL 34202)

**Presenter:** James Tarala (See bio at
<http://www.sans.org/security-training/instructors.php#Tarala>)

**Presentation Details:** "Software Assessment Tools & Methodologies"

*Recent reports, such as the SANS Top Security Risks Report
(http://www.sans.org/top-cyber-security-risks/) have indicated that
operating system security is no longer one of the biggest challenges to
organizations' information security today. Instead one of the primary
vectors used by those who threaten information resources are individual
applications that reside on an organization's systems. Software
applications have become the greater vulnerability to an organization
today. In this presentation James Tarala of Enclave Security and a
frequent instructor at the SANS Institute will present tools and
methodologies for assessing these applications in an effort to better
secure an organization's systems*

**The slides can be downloaded
[here](http://www.owasp.org/images/5/53/OWASP_-_Web_Defense_Tools.pdf)**

**Date/Time:** CANCELLED\!

**Location:** Gevity HR in Lakewood Ranch (9000 Town Center Pkwy,
Lakewood Ranch, FL 34202)

**Presenter:** Wes Brown

**Presentation Details:** "So You Want To Analyze Malware?"

*Malware is a broad category of malicious software that covers trojans,
viruses, worms, rootkits, and other software that steals information or
subverts computers into unintended purposes. There are many reasons why
one would want to analyze malware, and they can range from professional
interest in defending networks from them, to personal fascination in the
techniques involved in crafting them.*

*Whatever one’s reason for analyzing malware, Wes will share many of the
techniques that he’s utilized in the course of his career working on
client incident response engagements as well as a full time analyst on a
heuristic detection product.*

*Many might think that the techniques are dominated by methods such as
reverse engineering and binary analysis, and indeed it is a major part
of any analyst’s toolkit. However, statistical analysis, and static
forensics can often play just as key a role, combined with scripting,
systems management, and data warehousing.*

*Wes will describe and show examples of such techniques, as well as
supporting tools. The emphasis will be on doing this with low cost or
free tools, so that an audience member can get up and running quickly
with malware analysis even on a shoestring budget.*

**OWASP Suncoast Chapter Meeting on Tuesday June 23, 2009 @ 6pm**

Location: The Community Foundation of Sarasota County (2635 Fruitville
Road Sarasota, FL 34237)

Topic: Cross-site Request Forgery, The Sleeping Giant of Web Application
Vulnerabilities

Presenter: Steve Carter

Click [here](http://anyvite.com/dovcqo0qiq) to view the invitation.

The slides can be downloaded here:
[Media:CSRF_062209.pdf](Media:CSRF_062209.pdf "wikilink")

**Introduction to the OWASP Suncoast Chapter at the 82 Degrees Tech
Networking Event**

When: Wednesday, April 29th 5 to 7 p.m.

Where: Hyatt Place Sarasota, 950 University Drive, Sarasota (across from
the airport)

Cost: $10 for 82 Degree Tech Members, $15 for Future members (beer, wine
and appetizers will be provided)

**(CANCELLED) OWASP Suncoast Chapter Meeting on Monday March 9th, 2009 @
6pm**

Location: Gevity HR in Lakewood Ranch (9000 Town Center Pkwy, Lakewood
Ranch, FL 34202)

Topic: Web 2.0 Vulnerabilities - Scan, Attack and Detect

Presenter: Shreeraj Shah

Full a full description and bio of Mr. Shah see
[Media:Web2.0_Vulnerabilities_Shreeraj.pdf](Media:Web2.0_Vulnerabilities_Shreeraj.pdf "wikilink")

**Successful Meeting Held at Gevity**

Thanks to Shane Hartman from Suncoast Security for a great briefing on
Flash malware. Also, thanks gain to John Hale and Gevity for providing a
conference room.

The presentation materials are available for download:

[Media:Malware_analysis_of_flash_content.pdf‎](Media:Malware_analysis_of_flash_content.pdf‎ "wikilink")

**OWASP Suncoast Chapter Meeting on Tuesday December 2th, 2008 @ 6pm**

Location: Gevity HR in Lakewood Ranch (9000 Town Center Pkwy, Lakewood
Ranch, FL 34202)

Topic: Analyzing Flash Malware

**Successful Meeting Held at Gevity**

There was a good turn out for last night's Suncoast OWASP Meeting, held
at Gevity on Sept 9th. Thanks to all who attended and special thanks to
John Hale and Gevity for sponsoring the event and providing the terrific
briefing room.

The presentation materials are available for download:

[Media:OWASP_Top_10_090708.ppt](Media:OWASP_Top_10_090708.ppt "wikilink")

[Media:OWASP_Tools_Demo_090908.ppt](Media:OWASP_Tools_Demo_090908.ppt "wikilink")

**OWASP Suncoast Chapter Meeting September 9th, 2008 @ 6pm , Location:
Gevity HR in Lakewood Ranch (Frederick Taylor conference room)**

Agenda: Discussion of OWASP Top Ten Vulnerabilities, OWASP tools
demonstration

**The presentations from the May 6 Suncoast OWASP meeting are now
available for download**

The following presentation is an introduction OWASP (and the Suncoast
chapter) with in depth information regarding its missions, goals and
objectives:
[Media:Introduction_to_OWASP_Suncoast_050608.ppt‎](Media:Introduction_to_OWASP_Suncoast_050608.ppt‎ "wikilink")

The following presentation is a brief web application security
introduction intended for those completely new to the subject:
[Media:Webappsec intro.ppt](Media:Webappsec_intro.ppt "wikilink")

**First Suncoat OWASP Meeting Tuesday May 6, 2008 @ 6pm - 8pm, location:
LTC Engineering Associates**

Agenda: Introduction to OWASP, Introduction to Web Application Security,
OWASP tools demonstration (time permitting)

We are looking for support including speakers and sponsors. We are also
still trying to identify a larger conference room in the area to host
future events. Speakers from commercial companies are welcome although
it is against [Chapter
rules](https://www.owasp.org/index.php/Chapter_Rules) to promote
commercial products.

[Category:OWASP Chapter](Category:OWASP_Chapter "wikilink")
[Category:United States](Category:United_States "wikilink")
[Category:Florida](Category:Florida "wikilink")