## Brief Summary

When an application does not renew its session cookie(s) after a
successful user authentication, it could be possible to find a session
fixation vulnerability and force a user to utilize a cookie known by the
attacker. In that case, an attacker could steal the user session
(session hijacking).

Session fixation vulnerabilities occur when:
\* A web application authenticates a user without first invalidating the
existing session ID, thereby continuing to use the session ID already
associated with the user.

  - An attacker is able to force a known session ID on a user so that,
    once the user authenticates, the attacker has access to the
    authenticated session.

In the generic exploit of session fixation vulnerabilities, an attacker
creates a new session on a web application and records the associated
session identifier. The attacker then causes the victim to authenticate
against the server using the same session identifier, giving the
attacker access to the user's account through the active session.

Furthermore, the issue described above is problematic for sites that
issue a session identifier over HTTP and then redirect the user to a
HTTPS log in form. If the session identifier is not reissued upon
authentication, the attacker can eavesdrop and steal the identifier and
then use it to hijack the session.

## How to Test

### Black Box Testing

**Testing for Session Fixation vulnerabilities:**
The first step is to make a request to the site to be tested (example
www.example.com). If the tester requests the following:

`GETÂ www.example.com`

They will obtain the following answer:

    HTTP/1.1 200 OK
    Date: Wed, 14 Aug 2008 08:45:11 GMT
    Server: IBM_HTTP_Server
    Set-Cookie: JSESSIONID=0000d8eyYq3L0z2fgq10m4v-rt4:-1; Path=/; secure
    Cache-Control: no-cache="set-cookie,set-cookie2"
    Expires: Thu, 01 Dec 1994 16:00:00 GMT
    Keep-Alive: timeout=5, max=100
    Connection: Keep-Alive
    Content-Type: text/html;charset=Cp1254
    Content-Language: en-US

The application sets a new session identifier
JSESSIONID=0000d8eyYq3L0z2fgq10m4v-rt4:-1 for the client.

Next, if the tester successfully authenticates to the application with
the following POST HTTPS:

    POST https://www.example.com/authentication.php HTTP/1.1
    Host: www.example.com
    User-Agent: Mozilla/5.0 (Windows; U; Windows NT 5.1; it; rv:1.8.1.16) Gecko/20080702 Firefox/2.0.0.16
    Accept: text/xml,application/xml,application/xhtml+xml,text/html;q=0.9,text/plain;q=0.8,image/png,*/*;q=0.5
    Accept-Language: it-it,it;q=0.8,en-us;q=0.5,en;q=0.3
    Accept-Encoding: gzip,deflate
    Accept-Charset: ISO-8859-1,utf-8;q=0.7,*;q=0.7
    Keep-Alive: 300
    Connection: keep-alive
    Referer: http://www.example.com
    Cookie: JSESSIONID=0000d8eyYq3L0z2fgq10m4v-rt4:-1
    Content-Type: application/x-www-form-urlencoded
    Content-length: 57

    Name=Meucci&wpPassword=secret!&wpLoginattempt=Log+in

The tester observes the following response from the server:

    HTTP/1.1 200 OK
    Date: Thu, 14 Aug 2008 14:52:58 GMT
    Server: Apache/2.2.2 (Fedora)
    X-Powered-By: PHP/5.1.6
    Content-language: en
    Cache-Control: private, must-revalidate, max-age=0
    X-Content-Encoding: gzip
    Content-length: 4090
    Connection: close
    Content-Type: text/html; charset=UTF-8
    ...
    HTML data
    ...

As no new cookie has been issued upon a successful authentication the
tester knows that it is possible to perform session hijacking.

**Result Expected:** The tester can send a valid session identifier to a
user (possibly using a social engineering trick), wait for them to
authenticate, and subsequently verify that privileges have been assigned
to this cookie.

### Gray Box Testing

Talk with developers and understand if they have implemented a session
token renew after a user successful authentication.

**Result Expected:** The application should always first invalidate the
existing session ID before authenticating a user, and if the
authentication is successful, provide another sessionID.

## Tools

  - JHijack - a numeric session hijacking tool -
    <http://yehg.net/lab/pr0js/files.php/jhijackv0.2beta.zip>
  - OWASP WebScarab:
    [OWASP_WebScarab_Project](OWASP_WebScarab_Project "wikilink")

## References

**Whitepapers**
\* [Session Fixation](Session_Fixation "wikilink")

  - ACROS Security:
    <http://www.acrossecurity.com/papers/session_fixation.pdf>
  - Chris Shiflett: <http://shiflett.org/articles/session-fixation>