## Summary

File extensions are commonly used in web servers to easily determine
which technologies, languages and plugins must be used to fulfill the
web request. While this behavior is consistent with RFCs and Web
Standards, using standard file extensions provides the penetration
tester useful information about the underlying technologies used in a
web appliance and greatly simplifies the task of determining the attack
scenario to be used on particular technologies. In addition,
mis-configuration of web servers could easily reveal confidential
information about access credentials.

Extension checking is often used to validate files to be uploaded, which
can lead to unexpected results because the content is not what is
expected, or because of unexpected OS file name handling.

Determining how web servers handle requests corresponding to files
having different extensions may help in understanding web server
behavior depending on the kind of files that are accessed. For example,
it can help to understand which file extensions are returned as text or
plain versus those that cause execution on the server side. The latter
are indicative of technologies, languages or plugins that are used by
web servers or application servers, and may provide additional insight
on how the web application is engineered. For example, a “.pl” extension
is usually associated with server-side Perl support. However, the file
extension alone may be deceptive and not fully conclusive. For example,
Perl server-side resources might be renamed to conceal the fact that
they are indeed Perl related. See the next section on “web server
components” for more on identifying server side technologies and
components.

## How to Test

### Forced browsing

Submit http\[s\] requests involving different file extensions and verify
how they are handled. The verification should be on a per web directory
basis. Verify directories that allow script execution. Web server
directories can be identified by vulnerability scanners, which look for
the presence of well-known directories. In addition, mirroring the web
site structure allows the tester to reconstruct the tree of web
directories served by the application.

If the web application architecture is load-balanced, it is important to
assess all of the web servers. This may or may not be easy, depending on
the configuration of the balancing infrastructure. In an infrastructure
with redundant components there may be slight variations in the
configuration of individual web or application servers. This may happen
if the web architecture employs heterogeneous technologies (think of a
set of IIS and Apache web servers in a load-balancing configuration,
which may introduce slight asymmetric behavior between them, and
possibly different vulnerabilities).

*'Example:*

The tester has identified the existence of a file named connection.inc.
Trying to access it directly gives back its contents, which are:

    <?
        mysql_connect("127.0.0.1", "root", "")
            or die("Could not connect");

    ?>

The tester determines the existence of a MySQL DBMS back end, and the
(weak) credentials used by the web application to access it.

The following file extensions should never be returned by a web server,
since they are related to files which may contain sensitive information
or to files for which there is no reason to be served.

  - .asa
  - .inc

The following file extensions are related to files which, when accessed,
are either displayed or downloaded by the browser. Therefore, files with
these extensions must be checked to verify that they are indeed supposed
to be served (and are not leftovers), and that they do not contain
sensitive information.

  - .zip, .tar, .gz, .tgz, .rar, ...: (Compressed) archive files
  - .java: No reason to provide access to Java source files
  - .txt: Text files
  - .pdf: PDF documents
  - .doc, .rtf, .xls, .ppt, ...: Office documents
  - .bak, .old and other extensions indicative of backup files (for
    example: \~ for Emacs backup files)

The list given above details only a few examples, since file extensions
are too many to be comprehensively treated here. Refer to
<http://filext.com/> for a more thorough database of extensions.

To identify files having a given extensions a mix of techniques can be
employed. THese techniques can include Vulnerability Scanners, spidering
and mirroring tools, manually inspecting the application (this overcomes
limitations in automatic spidering), querying search engines (see
[Testing: Spidering and
googling](Testing:_Spidering_and_googling "wikilink")). See also
[Testing for Old, Backup and Unreferenced
Files](Testing_for_Old,_Backup_and_Unreferenced_Files_\(OWASP-CM-006\) "wikilink")
which deals with the security issues related to "forgotten" files.

### File Upload

Windows 8.3 legacy file handling can sometimes be used to defeat file
upload filters

    Usage Examples:

    file.phtml gets processed as PHP code

    FILE~1.PHT is served, but not processed by the PHP ISAPI handler

    shell.phPWND can be uploaded

    SHELL~1.PHP will be expanded and returned by the OS shell, then processed by the PHP ISAPI handler

### Gray Box testing

Performing white box testing against file extensions handling amounts to
checking the configurations of web servers or application servers taking
part in the web application architecture, and verifying how they are
instructed to serve different file extensions.

If the web application relies on a load-balanced, heterogeneous
infrastructure, determine whether this may introduce different behavior.

## Tools

Vulnerability scanners, such as Nessus and Nikto check for the existence
of well-known web directories. They may allow the tester to download the
web site structure, which is helpful when trying to determine the
configuration of web directories and how individual file extensions are
served. Other tools that can be used for this purpose include:

  - wget - <http://www.gnu.org/software/wget>
  - curl - <http://curl.haxx.se>
  - google for “web mirroring tools”.