## Summary


Nowadays web applications often make use of popular open source or
commercial software that can be installed on servers with minimal
configuration or customization by the server administrator. Moreover, a
lot of hardware appliances (i.e. network routers and database servers)
offer web-based configuration or administrative interfaces.

Often these applications, once installed, are not properly configured
and the default credentials provided for initial authentication and
configuration are never changed. These default credentials are well
known by penetration testers and, unfortunately, also by malicious
attackers, who can use them to gain access to various types of
applications.

Furthermore, in many situations, when a new account is created on an
application, a default password (with some standard characteristics) is
generated. If this password is predictable and the user does not change
it on the first access, this can lead to an attacker gaining
unauthorized access to the application.

The root cause of this problem can be identified as:

  - Inexperienced IT personnel, who are unaware of the importance of
    changing default passwords on installed infrastructure components,
    or leave the password as default for "ease of maintenance".
  - Programmers who leave back doors to easily access and test their
    application and later forget to remove them.
  - Applications with built-in non-removable default accounts with a
    preset username and password.
  - Applications that do not force the user to change the default
    credentials after the first log in.


\==How to Test ==

### Testing for default credentials of common applications

In black box testing the tester knows nothing about the application and
its underlying infrastructure. In reality this is often not true, and
some information about the application is known. We suppose that you
have identified, through the use of the techniques described in this
Testing Guide under the chapter [Information
Gathering](Testing_Information_Gathering "wikilink"), at least one or
more common applications that may contain accessible administrative
interfaces.

When you have identified an application interface, for example a Cisco
router web interface or a Weblogic administrator portal, check that the
known usernames and passwords for these devices do not result in
successful authentication. To do this you can consult the manufacturer’s
documentation or, in a much simpler way, you can find common credentials
using a search engine or by using one of the sites or tools listed in
the Reference section.

When facing applications where we do not have a list of default and
common user accounts (for example due to the fact that the application
is not wide spread) we can attempt to guess valid default credentials.
Note that the application being tested may have an account lockout
policy enabled, and multiple password guess attempts with a known
username may cause the account to be locked. If it is possible to lock
the administrator account, it may be troublesome for the system
administrator to reset it.

Many applications have verbose error messages that inform the site users
as to the validity of entered usernames. This information will be
helpful when testing for default or guessable user accounts. Such
functionality can be found, for example, on the log in page, password
reset and forgotten password page, and sign up page. Once you have found
a default username you could also start guessing passwords for this
account.

More information about this procedure can be found in the section
[Testing for User Enumeration and Guessable User
Account](Testing_for_User_Enumeration_and_Guessable_User_Account_\(OWASP-AT-002\) "wikilink")
and in the section [Testing for Weak password
policy](Testing_for_Weak_password_policy_\(OWASP-AT-008\) "wikilink").

Since these types of default credentials are often bound to
administrative accounts you can proceed in this manner:

  - Try the following usernames - "admin", "administrator", "root",
    "system", "guest", "operator", or "super". These are popular among
    system administrators and are often used. Additionally you could try
    "qa", "test", "test1", "testing" and similar names. Attempt any
    combination of the above in both the username and the password
    fields. If the application is vulnerable to username enumeration,
    and you manage to successfully identify any of the above usernames,
    attempt passwords in a similar manner. In addition try an empty
    password or one of the following "password", "pass123",
    "password123", "admin", or "guest" with the above accounts or any
    other enumerated accounts. Further permutations of the above can
    also be attempted. If these passwords fail, it may be worth using a
    common username and password list and attempting multiple requests
    against the application. This can, of course, be scripted to save
    time.
  - Application administrative users are often named after the
    application or organization. This means if you are testing an
    application named "Obscurity", try using obscurity/obscurity or any
    other similar combination as the username and password.
  - When performing a test for a customer, attempt using names of
    contacts you have received as usernames with any common passwords.
    Customer email addresses mail reveal the user accounts naming
    convention: if employee John Doe has the email address
    jdoe@example.com, you can try to find the names of system
    administrators on social media and guess their username by applying
    the same naming convention to their name.
  - Attempt using all the above usernames with blank passwords.
  - Review the page source and JavaScript either through a proxy or by
    viewing the source. Look for any references to users and passwords
    in the source. For example "If username='admin' then
    starturl=/admin.asp else /index.asp" (for a successful log in versus
    a failed log in). Also, if you have a valid account, then log in and
    view every request and response for a valid log in versus an invalid
    log in, such as additional hidden parameters, interesting GET
    request (login=yes), etc.
  - Look for account names and passwords written in comments in the
    source code. Also look in backup directories for source code (or
    backups of source code) that may contain interesting comments and
    code.

### Testing for default password of new accounts

It can also occur that when a new account is created in an application
the account is assigned a default password. This password could have
some standard characteristics making it predictable. If the user does
not change it on first usage (this often happens if the user is not
forced to change it) or if the user has not yet logged on to the
application, this can lead an attacker to gain unauthorized access to
the application.

The advice given before about a possible lockout policy and verbose
error messages are also applicable here when testing for default
passwords.

The following steps can be applied to test for these types of default
credentials:

  - Looking at the User Registration page may help to determine the
    expected format and minimum or maximum length of the application
    usernames and passwords. If a user registration page does not exist,
    determine if the organization uses a standard naming convention for
    user names such as their email address or the name before the "@" in
    the email.
  - Try to extrapolate from the application how usernames are generated.
    For example, can a user choose his/her own username or does the
    system generate an account name for the user based on some personal
    information or by using a predictable sequence? If the application
    does generate the account names in a predictable sequence, such as
    user7811, try fuzzing all possible accounts recursively. If you can
    identify a different response from the application when using a
    valid username and a wrong password, then you can try a brute force
    attack on the valid username (or quickly try any of the identified
    common passwords above or in the reference section).
  - Try to determine if the system generated password is predictable. To
    do this, create many new accounts quickly after one another so that
    you can compare and determine if the passwords are predictable. If
    predictable, try to correlate these with the usernames, or any
    enumerated accounts, and use them as a basis for a brute force
    attack.
  - If you have identified the correct naming convention for the user
    name, try to “brute force” passwords with some common predictable
    sequence like for example dates of birth.
  - Attempt using all the above usernames with blank passwords or using
    the username also as password value.


\=== Gray Box testing ===
The following steps rely on an entirely Gray Box approach. If only some
of this information is available to you, refer to black box testing to
fill the gaps.

  - Talk to the IT personnel to determine which passwords they use for
    administrative access and how administration of the application is
    undertaken.
  - Ask IT personnel if default passwords are changed and if default
    user accounts are disabled.
  - Examine the user database for default credentials as described in
    the Black Box testing section. Also check for empty password fields.
  - Examine the code for hard coded usernames and passwords.
  - Check for configuration files that contain usernames and passwords.
  - Examine the password policy and, if the application generates its
    own passwords for new users, check the policy in use for this
    procedure.

## Tools

  - Burp Intruder: <http://portswigger.net/burp/intruder.html>
  - THC Hydra: <http://www.thc.org/thc-hydra/>
  - Brutus: <http://www.hoobie.net/brutus/>
  - Nikto 2: <http://www.cirt.net/nikto2>

## References

**Whitepapers**
\* CIRT <http://www.cirt.net/passwords>

  - Government Security - Default Logins and Passwords for Networked
    Devices
    <http://www.governmentsecurity.org/articles/DefaultLoginsandPasswordsforNetworkedDevices.php>
  - Virus.org <http://www.virus.org/default-password/>
  - Default Password <http://www.defaultpassword.com/>