## Summary

This section describes the issue of escalating privileges from one stage
to another. During this phase, the tester should verify that it is not
possible for a user to modify his or her privileges or roles inside the
application in ways that could allow privilege escalation attacks.

Privilege escalation occurs when a user gets access to more resources or
functionality than they are normally allowed, and such elevation or
changes should have been prevented by the application. This is usually
caused by a flaw in the application. The result is that the application
performs actions with more privileges than those intended by the
developer or system administrator.

The degree of escalation depends on what privileges the attacker is
authorized to possess, and what privileges can be obtained in a
successful exploit. For example, a programming error that allows a user
to gain extra privilege after successful authentication limits the
degree of escalation, because the user is already authorized to hold
some privilege. Likewise, a remote attacker gaining superuser privilege
without any authentication presents a greater degree of escalation.

Usually, people refer to *vertical escalation* when it is possible to
access resources granted to more privileged accounts (e.g., acquiring
administrative privileges for the application), and to *horizontal
escalation* when it is possible to access resources granted to a
similarly configured account (e.g., in an online banking application,
accessing information related to a different user).

## How to test

**Testing for role/privilege manipulation**
In every portion of the application where a user can create information
in the database (e.g., making a payment, adding a contact, or sending a
message), can receive information (statement of account, order details,
etc.), or delete information (drop users, messages, etc.), it is
necessary to record that functionality. The tester should try to access
such functions as another user in order to verify if it is possible to
access a function that should not be permitted by the user's
role/privilege (but might be permitted as another user).

### Manipulation of user group

For example:
The following HTTP POST allows the user that belongs to grp001 to access
order \#0001:

```
 POST /user/viewOrder.jsp HTTP/1.1
 Host: www.example.com
 ...

 groupID=grp001&orderID=0001
```

Verify if a user that does not belong to grp001 can modify the value of
the parameters ‘groupID’ and ‘orderID’ to gain access to that privileged
data.

### Manipulation of user profile

For example:
The following server's answer shows a hidden field in the HTML returned
to the user after a successful authentication.

`HTTP/1.1 200 OK`
`Server: Netscape-Enterprise/6.0`
`Date: Wed, 1 Apr 2006 13:51:20 GMT`
`Set-Cookie: USER=aW78ryrGrTWs4MnOd32Fs51yDqp; path=/; domain=www.example.com `
`Set-Cookie: SESSION=k+KmKeHXTgDi1J5fT7Zz; path=/; domain= www.example.com`
`Cache-Control: no-cache`
`Pragma: No-cache `
`Content-length: 247`
`Content-Type: text/html`
`Expires: Thu, 01 Jan 1970 00:00:00 GMT`
`Connection: close`


<form  name="autoriz" method="POST" action = "visual.jsp">

<input type="hidden" name="profile" value="SysAdmin">

<body onload="document.forms.autoriz.submit()">

</td>

</tr>

What if the tester modifies the value of the variable "profile" to
"SysAdmin"? Is it possible to become administrator?

### Manipulation of condition value

For example:
In an environment where the server sends an error message contained as a
value in a specific parameter in a set of answer codes, as the
following:

```@0`1`3`3``0`UC`1`Status`OK`SEC`5`1`0`ResultSet`0`PVValid`-1`0`0` Notifications`0`0`3`Command  Manager`0`0`0` StateToolsBar`0`0`0`    ```
``StateExecToolBar`0`0`0`FlagsToolBar`0``

The server gives an implicit trust to the user. It believes that the
user will answer with the above message closing the session.

In this condition, verify that it is not possible to escalate privileges
by modifying the parameter values. In this particular example, by
modifying the \`PVValid\` value from '-1' to '0' (no error conditions),
it may be possible to authenticate as administrator to the server.


### Manipulation of IP Address

Some webistes uses IP address to limit the access or count the number of
error login based on IP address.

For example:

`X-Forwarded-For: 8.1.1.1`

In this case, if the website uses the value of 'X-forwarded-For' as
client IP address, tester may change the IP value of the
'X-forwarded-For' HTTP header to workaround the IP source
identification.

### URL Traversal

Try to traverse the website and check if some of pages that may miss the
authorization check.

For example:

`/../.././userInfo.html`

### WhiteBox

If the URL authorization check is only done by partial URL match, then
it's likely testers or hackers may workaround the authorization by URL
encoding techniques.

For example:

`startswith(), endswith(), contains(), indexOf()`

### Weak SessionID

Weak Session ID has algorithm may be vulnerable to brute Force attack.
For example, one website is using MD5 (Password + UserID) as sessionID.
Then, testers may guess or generate the sessionID for other users.

## References

**Whitepapers**
\* Wikipedia - Privilege Escalation:
<http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Privilege_escalation>

## Tools

  - OWASP WebScarab: [OWASP WebScarab
    Project](OWASP_WebScarab_Project "wikilink")
  - [OWASP Zed Attack Proxy
    (ZAP)](https://www.owasp.org/index.php/OWASP_Zed_Attack_Proxy_Project)