## Summary

Session termination is an important part of the session lifecycle.
Reducing to a minimum the lifetime of the session tokens decreases the
likelihood of a successful session hijacking attack. This can be seen as
a control against preventing other attacks like Cross Site Scripting and
Cross Site Request Forgery. Such attacks have been known to rely on a
user having an authenticated session present. Not having a secure
session termination only increases the attack surface for any of these
attacks.

A secure session termination requires at least the following components:

  - Availability of user interface controls that allow the user to
    manually log out.
  - Session termination after a given amount of time without activity
    (session timeout).
  - Proper invalidation of server-side session state.

There are multiple issues which can prevent the effective termination of
a session. For the ideal secure web application, a user should be able
to terminate at any time through the user interface. Every page should
contain a log out button on a place where it is directly visible.
Unclear or ambiguous log out functions could cause the user not trusting
such functionality.

Another common mistake in session termination is that the client-side
session token is set to a new value while the server-side state remains
active and can be reused by setting the session cookie back to the
previous value. Sometimes only a confirmation message is shown to the
user without performing any further action. This should be avoided.

Some web application frameworks rely solely on the session cookie to
identify the logged-on user. The user's ID is embedded in the
(encrypted) cookie value. The application server does not do any
tracking on the server-side of the session. When logging out, the
session cookie is removed from the browser. However, since the
application does not do any tracking, it does not know whether a session
is logged out or not. So by reusing a session cookie it is possible to
gain access to the authenticated session. A well-known example of this
is the Forms Authentication functionality in ASP.NET.

Users of web browsers often don't mind that an application is still open
and just close the browser or a tab. A web application should be aware
of this behavior and terminate the session automatically on the
server-side after a defined amount of time.

The usage of a single sign-on (SSO) system instead of an
application-specific authentication scheme often causes the coexistence
of multiple sessions which have to be terminated separately. For
instance, the termination of the application-specific session does not
terminate the session in the SSO system. Navigating back to the SSO
portal offers the user the possibility to log back in to the application
where the log out was performed just before. On the other side a log out
function in a SSO system does not necessarily cause session termination
in connected applications.

## How to Test

**Testing for log out user interface:**
Verify the appearance and visibility of the log out functionality in the
user interface. For this purpose, view each page from the perspective of
a user who has the intention to log out from the web application.

**Result Expected:**
There are some properties which indicate a good log out user interface:

  - A log out button is present on all pages of the web application.
  - The log out button should be identified quickly by a user who wants
    to log out from the web application.
  - After loading a page the log out button should be visible without
    scrolling.
  - Ideally the log out button is placed in an area of the page that is
    fixed in the view port of the browser and not affected by scrolling
    of the content.

**Testing for server-side session termination:**
First, store the values of cookies that are used to identify a session.
Invoke the log out function and observe the behavior of the application,
especially regarding session cookies. Try to navigate to a page that is
only visible in an authenticated session, e.g. by usage of the back
button of the browser. If a cached version of the page is displayed, use
the reload button to refresh the page from the server. If the log out
function causes session cookies to be set to a new value, restore the
old value of the session cookies and reload a page from the
authenticated area of the application. If these test don't show any
vulnerabilities on a particular page, try at least some further pages of
the application that are considered as security-critical, to ensure that
session termination is recognized properly by these areas of the
application.
![Sequence_diagram_for_testing_server-side_session_termination.png](Sequence_diagram_for_testing_server-side_session_termination.png
"Sequence_diagram_for_testing_server-side_session_termination.png")

**Result Expected:**
No data that should be visible only by authenticated users should be
visible on the examined pages while performing the tests. Ideally the
application redirects to a public area or a log in form while accessing
authenticated areas after termination of the session. It should be not
necessary for the security of the application, but setting session
cookies to new values after log out is generally considered as good
practice.

**Testing for session timeout:**
Try to determine a session timeout by performing requests to a page in
the authenticated area of the web application with increasing delays. If
the log out behavior appears, the used delay matches approximately the
session timeout value.

**Result Expected:**
The same results as for server-side session termination testing
described before are excepted by a log out caused by an inactivity
timeout.

The proper value for the session timeout depends on the purpose of the
application and should be a balance of security and usability. In a
banking applications it makes no sense to keep an inactive session more
than 15 minutes. On the other side a short timeout in a wiki or forum
could annoy users which are typing lengthy articles with unnecessary log
in requests. There timeouts of an hour and more can be acceptable.

**Testing for session termination in single sign-on environments (single
sign-off):**
Perform a log out in the tested application. Verify if there is a
central portal or application directory which allows the user to log
back in to the application without authentication. Test if the
application requests the user to authenticate, if the URL of an entry
point to the application is requested. While logged in in the tested
application, perform a log out in the SSO system. Then try to access an
authenticated area of the tested application.

**Result Expected:**
It is expected that the invocation of a log out function in a web
application connected to a SSO system or in the SSO system itself causes
global termination of all sessions. An authentication of the user should
be required to gain access to the application after log out in the SSO
system and connected application.

## Tools

  - "Burp Suite - Repeater" -
    <http://portswigger.net/burp/repeater.html>

## References

**Whitepapers**

  - "The FormsAuthentication.SignOut method does not prevent cookie
    reply attacks in ASP.NET applications" -
    <https://support.microsoft.com/en-us/kb/900111>
  - "Cookie replay attacks in ASP.NET when using forms authentication" -
    <https://www.vanstechelman.eu/content/cookie-replay-attacks-in-aspnet-when-using-forms-authentication>