## The presentation

![Owasp_logo_normal.jpg](Owasp_logo_normal.jpg
"Owasp_logo_normal.jpg")The web hacking incident database (WHID) is a
Web Application Security Consortium project dedicated to maintaining a
list of web applications related security incidents. WHID goal is to
serve as a tool for raising awareness of the web application security
problem and provide information for statistical analysis of web
applications security incidents. The database is unique in tracking only
media reported security incidents that can be associated with a web
application security vulnerability. This presentation will highlight the
statistics gathered from June - Sept of 2009 and provide insight into
categories such as: 1) Top Attack Methods, 2) Top Compromise Outcomes,
3) Top Target Geographic Region, 4) Top Vertical Markets Hit. The
presenter will also provide some in-depth analysis for specific WHID
entries.

## The speaker

Ryan C. Barnett is the Director of Application Security Research at
Breach Security where he leads Breach Security Labs. He is a frequent
speaker at industry conferences such as Blackhat and is a Faculty Member
for the SANS Institute and Team Lead for the Center for Internet
Security Apache Benchmark Project. He is the OWASP ModSecurity Core Rule
Set (CRS) Project Leader and a member of the Web Application Security
Consortium where he leads the Distributed Open Proxy Honeypot Project.
Mr. Barnett has also authored a web security book for Addison/Wesley
Publishing entitled "Preventing Web Attacks with Apache".

[Category:OWASP_AppSec_DC_09](Category:OWASP_AppSec_DC_09 "wikilink")
[Category:OWASP_Conference_Presentations](Category:OWASP_Conference_Presentations "wikilink")