## The presentation

![Owasp_logo_normal.jpg](Owasp_logo_normal.jpg
"Owasp_logo_normal.jpg")How much security spending is enough when
developing web applications? There are few, if any, industry standard
benchmarks on this topic. Faced with new regulations and tightening
budgets, executive management needs spending guidelines to ensure
appropriate security is built into products. The OWASP (Open Web
Application Security Project) Security Spending Benchmarks Project is
the first wide-scale project to address this issue. It brings together
20 partner companies and releases quarterly reports measuring different
aspects of security spending. This session will give an overview of the
current results of our project.

## The speaker

Dr. Boaz Gelbord is the Executive Director of Information Security at
Wireless Generation, a New York based educational technology company.
Boaz has been a leader in the information security field for ten years.
Boaz began his information security career at KPN Royal Dutch Telecom,
where he led numerous security projects and authored 12 patents relating
to information security. His work on privacy enhancing technologies at
KPN earned several international awards and led to his designation as
one of "Europe's Tech Stars" by the Wall Street Journal Europe. Boaz
leads the OWASP Security Spending Benchmarks Project. He has a
widely-read information security blog at www.boazgelbord.com and is
frequently quoted in the media.

[Category:OWASP_AppSec_DC_09](Category:OWASP_AppSec_DC_09 "wikilink")
[Category:OWASP_Conference_Presentations](Category:OWASP_Conference_Presentations "wikilink")