## The presentation

![Owasp_logo_normal.jpg](Owasp_logo_normal.jpg
"Owasp_logo_normal.jpg")This presentation will cover the [OWASP Top
10](OWASP_Top_10 "wikilink") - 2010 Release Candidate that is being
released at the OWASP DC Conference. The OWASP Top 10 was originally
released in 2003 to raise awareness of the importance of application
security. As the field evolves, the Top 10 needs to be periodically
updated to keep with up with the times. The Top 10 was updated in 2004
and the last update was in 2007, where it introduced Cross Site Request
Forgery (CSRF) as the big new emerging web application security risk.

This update will be based on more sources of web application
vulnerability information than the previous versions were when
determining the new Top 10. It will also present this information in a
more concise, compelling, and consumable manner, and include strong
references to the many new openly available resources that can help
address each issue, particularly OWASP's new [Enterprise Security API
(ESAPI)](ESAPI "wikilink") and [Application Security Verification
Standard (ASVS)](ASVS "wikilink") projects.

A significant change for this update will be that the OWASP Top 10 will
be focused on the Top 10 **Risks** to Web Applications, not just the
most common vulnerabilities. At the conference will be the debut of the
release candidate of the new Top 10, which will open up a 60 day comment
period. After that time, a final version will be produced and released
in early 2010.

## The speaker

Sebastien Deleersnyder, Lead Application Security, Telindus - Belgacom
ICT Sebastien started the successful Belgian OWASP Chapter and performed
several public presentations on web application and web services
security. Sebastien specialises in (web) application security, combining
his software development and information security experience. He is
currently OWASP Foundation board member and responsible for the Telindus
application security offering.

[Category:OWASP_AppSec_Conference](Category:OWASP_AppSec_Conference "wikilink")
[Category:OWASP_BeNeLux_09](Category:OWASP_BeNeLux_09 "wikilink")