## The presentation

![Owasp_logo_normal.jpg](Owasp_logo_normal.jpg
"Owasp_logo_normal.jpg")Secure software development won't succeed
without substantial collaboration among the infosec teams in an
organization. In this session, I describe and discuss various
established secure software practices and why involvement of infosec
staff is so vital to their success. Citing numerous examples of case
studies, I spotlight myriad successes and failures encountered in both
small and very large software development organizations. Additionally,
for each software security practice, I provide an actionable list of
things a software development team should start doing to immediately
improve its results through collaboration with (generally in-house)
infosec staff.

## The speaker

Kenneth R. van Wyk is an internationally recognized information security
expert and author of the O'Reilly and Associates books, Incident
Response and Secure Coding. In addition to providing consulting and
training services through his company, KRvW Associates, LLC, he
currently holds numerous positions: Founder and moderator of the "Secure
Coding" mailing list, Member of the Board of Directors and Steering
Committee for non-profit organization, FIRST.org, Inc., monthly
columnist for on-line security portal, eSecurityPlanet, and a Visiting
Scientist at Carnegie Mellon University's Software Engineering
Institute. Ken has 20+ years experience as an IT Security practitioner
in the academic, military, and commercial sectors. He has held senior
and executive technologist positions at Tekmark, Para-Protect, Science
Applications International Corporation (SAIC), in addition to the U.S.
Department of Defense and Carnegie Mellon and Lehigh Universities. At
Carnegie Mellon University's Software Engineering Institute, Ken was one
of the founders of the Computer Emergency Response Team (CERTÂ®).

[Category:OWASP_AppSec_DC_09](Category:OWASP_AppSec_DC_09 "wikilink")
[Category:OWASP_Conference_Presentations](Category:OWASP_Conference_Presentations "wikilink")