![468x60-banner-2010.gif](468x60-banner-2010.gif
"468x60-banner-2010.gif")

[Registration](https://guest.cvent.com/EVENTS/Register/IdentityConfirmation.aspx?e=d52c6f5f-d568-4e16-b8e0-b5e2bf87ab3a)
|
[Hotel](https://resweb.passkey.com/Resweb.do?mode=welcome_gi_new&groupID=2766908)
| [Walter E. Washington Convention
Center](http://www.dcconvention.com/)
\== The presentation ==

![Keith_T_238x333.jpg](Keith_T_238x333.jpg
"Keith_T_238x333.jpg")Introducing a new OWASP project, "The Secure
Coding Practices Quick Reference Guide". The guide is a technology
agnostic set of software security coding practices, in a comprehensive
checklist format, that can be integrated into the development
life-cycle. At only 13 pages long, it is easy for development teams to
read and use. The coding practices are mapped to functional
requirements, so you can quickly locate the practices you need. It also
provides a brief introduction to security principles and vocabulary to
help developers and security folks get on the same page, but the focus
is on requirements not vulnerabilities or exploits. This presentation
will provide an overview of the guide and discuss some concepts about
how to use it.

[Slides](media:Secure_Coding_Practices_Quick_Ref_4.ppt‎ "wikilink")

## Keith Turpin

Keith leads Boeing’s enterprise application security assessment team. He
previously served as the lead IT security advisor for all of Boeing’s
international operations. Keith represents Boeing on the International
Committee for Information Technology Standard’s cyber security technical
committee and serves as a U.S. delegate to the International Standards
Organization’s sub committee on cyber security

Keith is the project leader for the OWASP Secure Coding Practices Quick
Reference Guide and is a member of the Software Assurance Working Group.
He also spent four years as the Director of Communication for the Puget
Sound chapter of the Information Systems Security Association. He is a
frequent speaker at colleges, professional organizations, corporations,
and conferences on a variety of technical topics and in his spare time
he is the director of a nationally recognized intercollegiate
engineering competition.

He holds a BS in Mechanical Engineering and MS in Computer Systems.

[Category:AppSec_DC_2010_Presentations](Category:AppSec_DC_2010_Presentations "wikilink")
[Category:OWASP_Conference_Presentations](Category:OWASP_Conference_Presentations "wikilink")