Give a man a fish and you feed him for a day.....

.....teach a man to fish and you feed him for a lifetime. I feel this
proverb can be applied to the content of most application security
guidance projects and to the approaches taken by organisations that are
trying to create secure applications. Security professionals have often
pointed to such projects as the bible for developers wanting to learn
how to develop securely and championed various approaches to secure
development but one has to question whether current approaches actually
help developers to produce secure software. We have seen the amount of
recorded (given a CVE number) SQL Injection and Cross Site Scripting
vulnerabilities increase from 8.6% of all vulnerabilities in 2007 to
33.46% in 2008. This growth has not slowed in 2009 with these two
vulnerabilities accounting for 35.23% of all vulnerabilities this year
so far.

These statistics alone must raise the question of whether the secure
development projects are getting their message across to developers;
more to the point are these projects getting the right message across? I
feel that these projects do a good job of telling developers what
problems can occur and how to exploit these flaws but they don’t follow
this up with useful guidance on how to develop applications that reduce
the chance of these flaws occurring.

I think this comes from the fact that the people who contribute to these
projects like to be the hacker and often neglect the “boring” work of
detailing the preventative measures that developers actually need to
know. The work required to detail the preventative measures is tedious
but essential, developers would not need to read and interpret multiple
lists of “top x” vulnerabilities if they had a clear set of secure
development principles. The projects that do detail how to develop
securely are often bloated and cover hundreds of pages which still
leaves the majority of developers with one question, how do I develop
securely? This presentation will teach the audience about the 8 secure
development principles I have created which cover all currently known
vulnerabilities.