## The presentation

![Owasp_logo_normal.jpg](Owasp_logo_normal.jpg
"Owasp_logo_normal.jpg")This talk will be the official introduction of
the ESAPI WAF\! We'll present a new way of thinking about WAFs & our
tool provides all the usable, up-front security one can get from a WAF
without suffering from any of the design flaws and integration patterns
that make them a maintenance nightmare. It's a small-footprint
technology that can do all the following with ease & and for FREE, BSD
licensed\!

`* Virtual patches`
`* Enforce authentication`
`* Enforce access control`
`* Egress filtering/detection`
`* Enforce HTTPS`

It also has capabilities not yet imagined by today's WAFs because it is
deployed much closer to the application. Because of its proximity, the
ESAPI WAF can use custom code and session storage to integrate
meaningful, complex and customized security into an application. Don't
have the source? Not a problem\! ESAPI can sit in front without any code
changes. Don't have $200k to buy a commercial WAF? Don't feel
comfortable with mod_security? ESAPI WAF is your answer\! Assuming some
knowledge of WAFs, the talk will cover its capabilities (with
demonstrations), testing strategy (to provide assurance) and integration
strategies.

## The speaker

Arshan Dabirsiaghi is the Director of Research of Aspect Security, a
company that specializes in application security services. He
contributes to many OWASP groups and, as no surprise to Gary McGraw,
voted for Nader. Arshan just left PR hack on AOL yesterday and is trying
to figure out why document.cookie is so interesting. He spends most of
his work time abusing web applications, teaching classes all over the
world and doing research into next generation web application attacks
and defenses.

[Category:OWASP_AppSec_DC_09](Category:OWASP_AppSec_DC_09 "wikilink")
[Category:OWASP_Conference_Presentations](Category:OWASP_Conference_Presentations "wikilink")
[Category:OWASP WAF](Category:OWASP_WAF "wikilink")