## The presentation

![Robert_Hanson.jpg](Robert_Hanson.jpg "Robert_Hanson.jpg")There are a
number of people who work in roles and at places that drive much of the
security on the Internet. Could these people theoretically be subverted,
swayed or otherwise hacked? These people may, themselves, not even know
how much control they have. This is a wide look at some of the worst
single points of failure our industry, electronic commerce and the
Internet at large has in general.

## The speakers

Robert Hansen (CEO, Founder of SecTheory) has worked for Digital Island,
Exodus Communications and Cable & Wireless in varying roles from Sr.
Security Architect and eventually product managing many of the managed
security services product lines. He also worked at eBay as a Sr. Global
Product Manager of Trust and Safety, focusing on anti-phishing,
anti-DHTML malware and anti-virus strategies. Later he worked as a
director of product management for Realtor.com. Robert sits on the
advisory board for the Intrepidus Group, previously sat on the technical
advisory board of ClickForensics and currently contributes to the
security strategy of several startup companies. Mr. Hansen authors
content on O'Reilly and co-authored "XSS Exploits" by Syngress
publishing. He sits on the NIST.gov Software Assurance Metrics and Tool
Evaluation group focusing on web application security scanners and the
Web Application Security Scanners Evaluation Criteria (WASC-WASSEC)
group. He also has briefed the DoD at the Pentagon and speaks at
SourceBoston, Secure360, GFIRST/US-CERT, CSI, Toorcon, APWG, ISSA,
TRISC, World OWASP/WASC conferences, SANS, Microsoft's Bluehat,
Blackhat, DefCon, Networld+Interop, and has been the keynote speaker at
the New York Cyber Security Conference, NITES and OWASP Appsec Asia. Mr.
Hansen is a member of Infragard, Austin Chamber of Commerce, West Austin
Rotary, WASC, IACSP, APWG, he is the Industry Liaison for the Austin
ISSA and contributed to the OWASP 2.0 guide.

[Category:OWASP_AppSec_DC_09](Category:OWASP_AppSec_DC_09 "wikilink")
[Category:OWASP_Conference_Presentations](Category:OWASP_Conference_Presentations "wikilink")