![468x60-banner-2010.gif](468x60-banner-2010.gif
"468x60-banner-2010.gif")

[Registration](https://guest.cvent.com/EVENTS/Register/IdentityConfirmation.aspx?e=d52c6f5f-d568-4e16-b8e0-b5e2bf87ab3a)
|
[Hotel](https://resweb.passkey.com/Resweb.do?mode=welcome_gi_new&groupID=2766908)
| [Walter E. Washington Convention
Center](http://www.dcconvention.com/)
\==Why the economy on emerging countries can pose as a threat to cyber
security and how to improve the protection through continuous
education==

## The presentation

![Owasp_logo_normal.jpg](Owasp_logo_normal.jpg
"Owasp_logo_normal.jpg")Baseline projections from Goldman Sachs envisage
the BRICs overtaking the US by 2018. In terms of size, Brazil’s economy
will be larger than Italy’s by 2020; India and Russia will individually
be larger than Spain, Canada or Italy \[1\]. As a result of this
improvement, a new mid-class is emerging within the population and the
access to computers and e-commerce are advancing in the same wave,
generating threats based on a large base for new cyber criminals and
also new victims with little or no knowledge of computer security.

Although each region exhibits marked distinctiveness, several
commonalities emerge among the BRICs and also other countries on The
Greater Middle East and Central Asia \[2\]:

  - The cyber crime environments of each are becoming more dangerous and
    increasingly interconnected. Less-advanced cyber threat environments
    are catching up to the developed world more quickly than had been
    estimated.
  - Cyber crime in Brazil, constituting the vast majority of all that
    occurs in Latin America in 2008, has remained on a steady upward
    trajectory, essentially reflecting the wider Internet penetration
    and increasing numbers of online banking customers. This scenario is
    the same on Russia and Chine where the motivations can also be
    increased by politics and ethnic issues.

This presentation will show how this scenario is being studied and the
next steps on develop a more comprehensive analysis on the root causes
and proposed actions to change the increase of cyber crime from these
sources. The final objective will be to propose a OWASP Project for 2011
based on the fact that the majority of the impacts suffered came from
web applications vulnerable on client and server sides. \[1\] Is this
the ‘BRICs Decade’?, BRICs Monthly Issue No: 10/03 May 20, 2010 \[2\]
2009 Cyber Threats and Trends, An iDefense Topical Research Report, Dec.
12, 2008

## Eduardo Neves

Working with Information Security since 1997, Eduardo Neves is the
founder and CEO of Conviso IT Security, a consulting company specialized
on Network and Application Security. Also serves as a volunteer on OWASP
Global Education Committee and ISC2, leading and contributing on
projects focused on deliver and teach security content for the
non-security professionals.

[Category:AppSec_DC_2010_Presentations](Category:AppSec_DC_2010_Presentations "wikilink")
[Category:OWASP_Conference_Presentations](Category:OWASP_Conference_Presentations "wikilink")