## The presentation

![Owasp_logo_normal.jpg](Owasp_logo_normal.jpg
"Owasp_logo_normal.jpg")How will attackers break your web application?
How much security testing is enough? Do I have to worry about insiders?
Threat modeling, applied with a risk management approach can answer both
of these questions if done correctly. This talk will present advanced
threat modeling step-wise through examples and exercises using the Java
EE platform and focusing on authentication, authorization, and session
management. Participants will learn, through interactive exercise on
real software architectures, how to use diagramming techniques to
explicitly document threats their applications face, identify how assets
worth protecting manifest themselves within the system, and enumerate
the attack vectors these threats take advantage of. Participants will
then engage in secure design activities, learning how to use the threat
model to specify compensating controls for specified attack vectors.
Finally, we'll discuss how the model can drive security testing and
validate an application resists specified attack.

## The speaker

John Steven, Senior Director, Advanced Technology Consulting Cigital,
brings to this newly-created division of the company both depth and
breadth in software security. His experience includes research in static
code analysis and hands-on architecture and implementation of
high-performance, scalable Java EE systems. John has provided security
consulting services to a broad variety of commercial clients including
two of the largest trading platforms in the world and has advised
America's largest internet provider in the Midwest on security and
forensics. John led the development of Cigital's architectural analysis
methodology and its approach to deploying enterprise software security
frameworks. He has demonstrated success in building Cigital's
intellectual property for providing cutting-edge security. He brings
this experience and a track record of effective strategic innovation to
clients seeking to change, whether to adopt more cutting-edge
approaches, or to solidify ROI. John currently chairs the SD Best
Practices security track and co-edits the building security in
department of IEEE's Security and Privacy magazine. John has served on
numerous conference panels regarding software security, wireless
security and Java EE system development. He holds a B.S. in Computer
Engineering and an M.S. in Computer Science from Case Western Reserve
University.

[Category:OWASP_AppSec_DC_09](Category:OWASP_AppSec_DC_09 "wikilink")
[Category:OWASP_Conference_Presentations](Category:OWASP_Conference_Presentations "wikilink")