__NOTOC__

# Welcome

## Welcome to the OWASP Timisoara Chapter Homepage


Follow us on [Twitter.](https://twitter.com/OwaspT)
Follow us on
[Meetup.](https://www.meetup.com/OWASP-Timisoara-Chapter/)
Follow us on
[Linkedin.](https://www.linkedin.com/in/owasp-timisoara-chapter/)
Timisoara has an evolved software development community and one of the
most important aspects that we aim to achieve is to continuously improve
the application security world.

Everyone is welcome to join our chapter meetings, members and
non-members. OWASP Timisoara Chapter meetings / events are free and
open, so please join us\!

The chapter leader is [Catalin
Curelaru](mailto:catalin.curelaru@owasp.org).

The Chapter Board Members are: Monica Iovan (Education), Ioana Piroska (
PR/Marketing), Claudiu Ivan, Daniel Ilies.

<li>

Anyone who wants to get involved and help the Chapter evolve is very
welcome and please just contact us.

</li>

<li>

If you want to present at one of our meetings / events (please read the
[speaker agreement](https://www.owasp.org/index.php/Speaker_Agreement)).

</li>

<li>

In case that you have any questions about the OWASP Timisoara Chapter,
send an email to
[[mailto:catalin.curelaru@owasp.org](mailto:catalin.curelaru@owasp.org)
Catalin
Curelaru](mailto:catalin.curelaru@owasp.org_Catalin_Curelaru "wikilink")\]

</li>

Next event:
For details please check [Upcoming
Events.](https://www.owasp.org/index.php/Timisoara#tab=Upcoming_events)\!
Past chapter leaders
2015 - 2019 Cornel Punga
2015 - 2019 Florina Rosiu

# Upcoming events

[Please see our Meetup page for more details and to register as
attendee](https://www.meetup.com/OWASP-Timisoara-Chapter/?scroll=true)

## OWASP Timisoara \#15: 11 December 2019

Powered by UnifiedPost / Address: C. Brediceanu, 10, City Business
Center,Building D, 5th floor, Timisoara, Romania
Winter sessions - Theme: Honeypots, Hacking and Community Building

`Schedule`
**`18:00`**` Welcome participants`
**`18:15`**` About Honeypots - Florin Patruta `
**`18:50`**` Break`
**`18:55`**` Too good to be true - Learning path: How to become a hacker - Catalin Curelaru`
**`19:30`**` Break`
**`19:35`**` Learning Security & Community Building - Radu Ticiu`
**`20:10`**` Networking`
**`Time:`**` 18:00 to 21:00`

POWERED BY UnifiedPost

\> snacks and drinks on the house

Miercuri, 11 Decembrie - ora 18:00

C. Brediceanu, 10, City Business Center,Building D, 5th floor,
Timisoara, Romania

Winter sessions - Theme: Honeypots, Hacking and Community Building

<li>

Honeypots: The internet is getting bigger and bigger and the attacks on
organisations, governments, individuals etc are increasing. It's not a
matter of if you're going to be a target, but when. At some point in
time, attackers will find a way to enter a company's network, some way
or another. They usually do it by trying multiple times, after
conducting reconnaissance activity. Knowing who accesses the company
assets, creating decoys to lure attackers and gain time to implement
defense strategies could be a deal breaker. Learn more about what
honeypots are, how they can be used and what value they can provide to a
company.

</li>

<li>

Hacking: Nowadays we can see an increase in cyber-crime or state
controlled attacks and companies are starting to become more aware for
the need of people with a hacking culture. In Learning path, how to
become a hacker you will find a few steps on how you can be a good guy
into security and help organizations secure their environments.

</li>

<li>

Security Community Building: The founder and the coordinator of
CoderDojo will present the learning steps into security, how can we get
more insights if we participate into CTFs and how we can build a
stronger security community.

</li>

# Past events

## OWASP Timisoara \#14: 29th August 2019

Powered by Visma / Address: Strada Aristide Demetriade, Nr 1, UBC3
building, 10th Floor, Timisoara
Summer sessions - Theme: CyberSecurity, XSS/CSRF Attacks, Transparency

`Schedule`
**`18:00`**` Welcome participants`
**`18:15`**` Intro OWASP Timisoara - Catalin Curelaru`
**`18:20`**` CyberSecurity - Behind your front door - Adrian Daniel Bacanu`
**`18:50`**` Break`
**`19:00`**` XSS & CSRF attacks - Daniel Ilies & Claudiu Ivan`
**`19:45`**` Break`
**`19:50`**` Transparency of Episode XVI: The Empire Strikes - Catalin Curelaru`
**`20:20`**` Endnote - Plans for the future - Involvement in the Chapter - Catalin Curelaru`
**`20:30`**` Networking`
**`Time:`**` 18:00 to 21:00`

POWERED BY Visma Romania

## 20th September 2016, OWASP InfoSecTM \#13



<b>Speakers</b>

<li>

Matei-Eugen Vasile, ApTI
<b>Title:</b> Digital privacy și inamicii săi

</li>

<b>Description:</b>
Odată cu dezvoltarea Internetului, a apărut o presiune din partea
anumitor organizații ale statelor pentru a-l controla. Până recent,
aceste presiuni erau cunoscute doar celor a căror activitate era strâns
legată de funcționarea Internetului – adică oamenilor tehnici. Ulterior
și alte categorii au început să intuiască existenta acestor acțiuni de
control: profesioniștii din domeniul juridic, unii activiști din zona
apărării drepturile omului, etc. În ultimii ani, probabil că oricine a
auzit de Internet, a auzit și de încercările statelor de a controla
Internetul.

Parlamentul României a elaborat şi adoptat, la solicitarea
organizațiilor din domeniul securităţii naţionale, o lege a securității
„cibernetice” care a fost respinsă de Curtea Constituțională. O
eventuală decizie favorabila legii venita din partea Curţii
Constituţionalear fi fost dezastruoasă pentru toți cei care conetaţi la
Internet. Oricum, decizia Curții Constituționale nu i-a descurajat pe
autorii legii: au fost lansate propuneri aproape identică. E revelator
faptul că în România, până în prezent au avut loc patru încercări de
introducere a înregistrării datelor de identificare a cumpărătorilor de
cartelele SIM pre-plătite, iar ultima dintre ele a trecut de Parlament
fiind și aceasta respinsă de Curtea Constituțională. Lista tentativelor
de control poate continua, din păcate.

Concluzia care poate fi trasă este că supravegherea şi controlul poate
lua multe forme dar scopul final este același. Trebuie ca aceste aspecte
ale controlului să fie cunoscute şi discutate, pentru a putea fi
generate reacţii la abuzurile de aşteptat în viitor.

<li>

Lucian Florin Ilca, Atos
<b>Title:</b> Prezentarea și dezvoltarea vulnerabilităților la nivel de
routere, switch-uri și access point-uri

</li>

<b>Description:</b>
Vulnerabilitățile la nivel de arhitecturi MIPS sunt subiecte de
actualitate în zona securității informatice. Arhitecturile MIPS sunt
dezvoltate special pentru routere, switch-uri, puncte de acces WiFi. Cu
aceste device-uri avem de a face voluntar și involuntar, ele fiind
elemente fundamentale ale rețelele interconectate sau ”internet
networks”. Fie că folosim internetul mobil, în mediul domestic sau în
spațiul public, pentru ca traficul nostru să ajungă la destinație, el va
trece printr-un gateway care poate fi exploatat cu relativă ușurință.

În ultimii ani au fost raportate numeroase vulnerabilități 0 Day (sau,
mai bine zis, 0 Hour), care au afectat foarte mulți furnizori de
echipamente, de la Cisco, Juniper, Extreme Networks până la F5 sau Palo
Alto.

Prin intermediul prezentări sale, Lucian va aduce un plus de informație
despre modul de identificare și dezvoltare a unui exploit într-un
router, switch, access point, respectiv modul prin care pot fi obținute,
de la distanță, privilegii în aceste echipamente. Cu o vulnerabilitate
găsită și exploatată într-un echipament de rețea, se poate dezvolta
atacuri de mare amploare, de diverse tipuri: Man-in-the-middle
attack,Distributed Denial of Service sau Denial of Service, Network
Spoofing sau Remote Access Trojan.

## 31th May 2016, OWASP InfoSecTM \#12


<b>Title: Be aware of your bugs, if you aren’t, someone else is. Part
2</b>
This session shows a few exploit techniques used in the wild: ROP and
sled. We will also dissect a real life O day to see how this was done.

The takeaway is that sometimes no OS mitigation/static analyzer can save
you from an interprocedural logic flaw.

<b>Speakers</b>

<li>

Daniel BORCA - engine developer, <i>Bitdefender</i>

## 12th April 2016, OWASP InfoSecTM \#11


<b>Title: Be aware of your bugs, if you aren’t, someone else is</b>
The first session will introduce key concepts necessary in understanding
what is going on “under the hood” of your program and how this
correlates with being a possible victim of an exploit.

We will also dissect a real life exploit to see how this is done “in the
wild” and what can we do to prevent it.

<b>Speakers</b>

<li>

Daniel BORCA - engine developer, <i>Bitdefender</i>

</li>

<li>

Alin BARBATEI - malware researcher, <i>Bitdefender</i>

## 15th december 2015, OWASP InfoSecTM \#8

## 17th February 2016, OWASP InfoSecTM \#9



  - <b>Title:</b> A new generation of cryptographic algorithms - IDEA
    NXT".
    <b>Speaker:</b> Andreea Bozesan
    Discover the newest generation of symmetric block ciphers, their
    capabilities, drawbacks and means of testability. A hardware
    implementation is also analyzed for providing metrics to sustain the
    theoretic aspects exposed in the first part of the presentation
  - <b>Title:</b> Software Protection by Code Obfuscation
    <b>Speaker:</b> Ciprian Lucaci
    Complete protection of software against unauthorized access cannot
    be fully guaranteed because with enough resources any protection
    mechanism can eventually be overcome. Thus, the goal is usually to
    make the job of the attacker as difficult as possible. One
    possibility of protecting software intellectual property is through
    different source code obfuscation techniques.
    In this presentation I will briefly discuss different software
    protection techniques and present virtualization obfuscation as an
    effective protection mechanism. Virtualization obfuscation is a
    particular obfuscation technique that aims to protect the
    intellectual property of a software vendor by hiding the
    control-flow of a program P. This talk will present the concept of
    virtualization obfuscation by comparing by introducing the
    advantages and disadvantages compared to other obfuscation
    techniques.

Check the event on
FB[1](https://www.facebook.com/events/466855856850414/)
\==15th March 2016, OWASP InfoSecTM \#10==
<b>Presentations:</b>
<i>Romanian description</i>

<li>

<b>Speaker:</b> Dan Negrea, Software Engineer în departamentul de
Security al ACI.
Ca departament ne ocupăm de securitatea produselor ACI. Aplication
Security este o felie din ce în ce mai importantă din IT Security. Voi
prezenta Cross-Site Request Forgery, care ocupă poziția 8 în Top-ul
OWASP. Este o vulnerabilitate ușor de exploatat, implicând foarte puțin
cod. Detectarea este de asemenea ușoară.

Dacă ai un website și nu știi ce înseamnă CSRF, mai devreme sau mai
târziu vei afla. Mai bine mai devreme :) Iar, ca simplu utilizator, vei
afla câteva ”Best Practices”.

</li>

<li>

<b>Speaker</b> Radu Ciorbă
Linux and Python fanboy. Problemele de securitate vreau să le înțeleg în
primul rând din curiozitate, dar și pentru a ști ce să evit în sistemele
pe care le construiesc.

Voi prezenta, pe scurt, "The Debian SSL Fiasco" sau cum puțină
"curățenie în cod" bine intenționată a introdus unul dintre cele mai
grave exploituri de securitate din Debian.

</li>

<li>

<b>Speaker:</b> Flavius Oprițoiu
Prezentarea este intitulată "Reliable implementations for cryptographic
systems with testability facilities". Tema abordată o reprezintă
testarea fără degradarea securității în contextul dispozitivelor
criptografice. Astfel, sunt investigate mai întâi aspectele ce țin de
implementarea algoritmilor criptografici în contextul Advanced
Encryption Standard (AES), algoritm pentru care va fi descrisă
proiectarea unei arhitecturi duale, pentru criptare-decriptare, de
dimensiuni reduse (în consecință, de consum redus), construită pin
partajarea elementelor comune ale operațiilor directă și inversă.
Obiectivul urmărit în proiectarea acestei arhitecturi este obținerea
unui compromis cât mai bun între dimensiunile designului și capacitatea
de trecere a unității. Pornind de la arhitectura AES descrisă, vor fi
prezentate mai multe soluții posibile de extindere a sistemului
criptografic prin mecanisme de detecție a erorilor și, respectiv, a
situațiilor de atac. Strategiile de detecție a defectelor sunt
clasificate în mijloace de testare concurentă, respectiv, preemptivă,
fiind protejate toate operațiile de rundă ale AES prin mijloacele de
testare propuse.

# Sponsorship

Become a supporter of OWASP or of OWASP's Timisoara Chapter and help us
to make application security more visible.
All information about becoming a member/sponsor can be found
[here.](https://www.owasp.org/index.php/Membership)
<https://www.owasp.org/index.php/Local_Chapter_Supporter> <headertabs />

## Participation

OWASP Foundation ([Overview
Slides](https://docs.google.com/a/owasp.org/presentation/d/10wi1EWFCPZwCpkB6qZaBNN8mR2XfQs8sLxcj9SCsP6c/edit?usp=sharing))
is a professional association of [global members](Membership "wikilink")
and is open to anyone interested in learning more about software
security. Local chapters are run independently and guided by the
[Chapter_Leader_Handbook](Chapter_Leader_Handbook "wikilink"). As a
[501(c)(3)](About_OWASP "wikilink") non-profit professional association
your support and sponsorship of any meeting venue and/or refreshments is
tax-deductible. Financial contributions should only be made online using
the authorized online chapter donation button. To be a <b>SPEAKER</b> at
ANY OWASP Chapter in the world simply review the [speaker
agreement](Speaker_Agreement "wikilink") and then contact the local
chapter leader with details of what OWASP PROJECT, independent research
or related software security topic you would like to present on.

## Sponsorship/Membership

![Btn_donate_SM.gif](Btn_donate_SM.gif "Btn_donate_SM.gif") to this
chapter or become a local chapter supporter. Or consider the value of
[Individual, Corporate, or Academic Supporter
membership](Membership "wikilink"). Ready to become a member?
![Join_Now_BlueIcon.JPG](Join_Now_BlueIcon.JPG
"Join_Now_BlueIcon.JPG")

{{\#if:| }}

## Chapter Supporters

<b>Chapter Supporters</b>

[Category:OWASP Chapter](Category:OWASP_Chapter "wikilink")
[Category:](Category:{{{region}}} "wikilink")