Attackers can potentially use many different paths through your
application to do harm to your business or organization. Each of these
paths represents a risk that may, or may not, be serious enough to
warrant attention.
[text=applicationSecurityRisksImage]({{Top_10:LanguageFile "wikilink")
Sometimes, these paths are trivial to find and exploit and sometimes
they are extremely difficult. Similarly, the harm that is caused may
range from nothing, all the way through putting you out of business. To
determine the risk to your organization, you can evaluate the likelihood
associated with each threat agent, attack vector, and security weakness
and combine it with an estimate of the technical and business impact to
your organization. Together, these factors determine the overall risk.

The [OWASP Top 10](https://www.owasp.org/index.php/Top_10) focuses on
identifying the most serious risks for a broad array of organizations.
For each of these risks, we provide generic information about likelihood
and technical impact using the following simple ratings scheme, which is
based on the [OWASP Risk Rating
Methodology](https://www.owasp.org/index.php/OWASP_Risk_Rating_Methodology).

<center>

<table style="align:center; border-collapse: collapse; text-align:center;
              margin: 0px 5px 0px 5px; border: 3px solid #444444;
              background-color: {{Top 10:BackgroundColor|year=2013 }};
              padding=2; width: 90%;">

<tr style="background-color: {{Top 10:BorderColor|year=2013 }}; height: 2em; font-size: 90%; color: #FFFFFF;  text-shadow: 2px 2px 8px #444444; ">

<th style="width: 16.5%; border: 3px solid #444444;">

</th>

<th style="width: 16.5%; border: 3px solid #444444;">

</th>

<th style="width: 16.5%; border: 3px solid #444444;">

</th>

<th style="width: 16.5%; border: 3px solid #444444;">

</th>

<th style="width: 16.5%; border: 3px solid #444444;">

</th>

<th style="width: 16.5%; border: 3px solid #444444;">

</th>

</tr>

<tr>

<td style="font-weight: bold; font-size:100%; border: 3px solid #444444;" rowspan="3">

</td>

`Â `

<td style="font-weight: bold; font-size: 100%; border: 3px solid #444444; " rowspan="3">

</td>

</tr>

<tr>

</tr>

<tr>

</tr>

</table>

</center>

<u>Only you</u> know the specifics of your environment and your
business. For any given application, there may not be a threat agent
that can perform the relevant attack, or the technical impact may not
make any difference to your business. Therefore, you should evaluate
each risk <u>for yourself</u>, focusing on the threat agents, security
controls, and business impacts in your enterprise. We list Threat Agents
as Application Specific, and Business Impacts as Application / Business
Specific to indicate these are clearly dependent on the details about
your application in your enterprise.

The names of the risks in the Top 10 stem from the type of attack, the
type of weakness, or the type of impact they cause. We chose names that
accurately reflect the risks and, where possible, align with common
terminology most likely to raise awareness.

  - [OWASP Risk Rating
    Methodology](https://www.owasp.org/index.php/OWASP_Risk_Rating_Methodology)
  - [Article on Threat/Risk
    Modeling](https://www.owasp.org/index.php/Threat_Risk_Modeling)

<!-- end list -->

  - [FAIR Information Risk
    Framework](http://fairwiki.riskmanagementinsight.com/)
  - [Microsoft Threat Modeling (STRIDE and
    DREAD)](http://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/library/aa302419.aspx)