Welcome to the OWASP Top 10 2013\! This update broadens one of the
categories from the 2010 version to be more inclusive of common,
important vulnerabilities, and reorders some of the others based on
changing prevalence data. It also brings component security into the
spotlight by creating a specific category for this risk, pulling it out
of the obscurity of the fine print of the 2010 risk A6: Security
Misconfiguration.

The OWASP Top 10 for 2013 is based on 8 datasets from 7 firms that
specialize in application security, including 4 consulting companies and
3 tool/SaaS vendors (1 static, 1 dynamic, and 1 with both). This data
spans over 500,000 vulnerabilities across hundreds of organizations and
thousands of applications. The Top 10 items are selected and prioritized
according to this prevalence data, in combination with consensus
estimates of exploitability, detectability, and impact estimates.

The primary aim of the OWASP Top 10 is to educate developers, designers,
architects, managers, and organizations about the consequences of the
most important web application security weaknesses. The Top 10 provides
basic techniques to protect against these high risk problem areas – and
also provides guidance on where to go from here.

**Don’t stop at 10.** There are hundreds of issues that could affect the
overall security of a web application as discussed in the [OWASP
Developer’s Guide](https://www.owasp.org/index.php/OWASP_Guide_Project)
and the [OWASP Cheat Sheet
Series](https://www.owasp.org/index.php/Cheat_Sheets). These are
essential reading for anyone developing web applications. Guidance on
how to effectively find vulnerabilities in web applications is provided
in the [OWASP Testing
Guide](https://www.owasp.org/index.php/Category:OWASP_Testing_Project)
and the [OWASP Code Review
Guide](https://www.owasp.org/index.php/Category:OWASP_Code_Review_Project).

**Constant change.** This Top 10 will continue to change. Even without
changing a single line of your application’s code, you may become
vulnerable as new flaws are discovered and attack methods are refined.
Please review the advice at the end of the Top 10 in “What’s Next For
Developers, Verifiers, and Organizations” for more information.

**Think positive.** When you’re ready to stop chasing vulnerabilities
and focus on establishing strong application security controls, OWASP
has produced the [Application Security Verification Standard
(ASVS)](https://www.owasp.org/index.php/ASVS) as a guide to
organizations and application reviewers on what to verify.

**Use tools wisely.** Security vulnerabilities can be quite complex and
buried in mountains of code. In many cases, the most cost-effective
approach for finding and eliminating these weaknesses is human experts
armed with good tools.

**Push left.** Focus on making security an integral part of your culture
throughout your development organization. Find out more in the [Open
Software Assurance Maturity Model
(SAMM)](https://www.owasp.org/index.php/Category:Software_Assurance_Maturity_Model)
and the [Rugged Handbook](http://ruggedsoftware.org/).

Thanks to [Aspect Security](http://www.aspectsecurity.com/) for
initiating, leading, and updating the OWASP Top 10 since its inception
in 2003, and to its primary authors: Jeff Williams and Dave Wichers.

<center>

[<https://www.owasp.org/images/5/51/Aspect_Logo.png>](http://www.aspectsecurity.com)

</center>

We’d like to thank those organizations that contributed their
vulnerability prevalence data to support the 2013 update:

  - [Aspect Security](http://www.aspectsecurity.com/) -
    [Statistics](http://cdn2.hubspot.net/hub/315719/file-681702349-pdf/presentations/Aspect-2013-Global-AppSec-Risk-Report.pdf)
  - [HP](http://www.hpenterprisesecurity.com/) – Statistics from both
    [Fortify](http://www.hpenterprisesecurity.com/collateral/whitepaper/HP2012CyberRiskReport_0313.pdf)
    and WebInspect
  - [Minded Security](http://www.mindedsecurity.com/) –
    [Statistics](http://blog.mindedsecurity.com/2013/02/real-life-vulnerabilities-statistics.html)
  - [Softtek](http://www.softtek.com/) –
    [Statistics](https://www.softtek.com/webdocs/special_pdfs/WP-State-of-the-art-2013.pdf)
  - [Trustwave, Spiderlabs](https://www.trustwave.com/spiderlabs/) –
    [Statistics](http://www2.trustwave.com/rs/trustwave/images/2013-Global-Security-Report.pdf)
    (See page 50)
  - [Veracode](http://www.veracode.com/) –
    [Statistics](http://info.veracode.com/rs/veracode/images/VERACODE-SOSS-V4.PDF)
  - [WhiteHat Security Inc.](https://www.whitehatsec.com/) –
    [Statistics](http://owasptop10.googlecode.com/files/WPstats_winter11_11th.pdf)

We would also like to thank everyone who contributed to previous
versions of the Top 10, without which, it wouldn't be what it is
today.We’d also like to thank those who contributed significant
constructive comments and time reviewing this update to the Top 10:

  - Adam Baso ([Wikimedia
    Foundation](http://wikimediafoundation.org/wiki/Home))
  - Mike Boberski (Booz Allen Hamilton)
  - Torsten Gigler
  - Neil Smithline – ([MorphoTrust USA](http://www.MorphoTrust.com)) For
    producing the wiki version of the Top 10, and also providing
    feedback

And finally, we’d like to thank in advance all the translators out there
that will translate this release of the Top 10 into numerous different
languages, helping to make the OWASP Top 10 more accessible to the
entire planet.