# NOTE: THIS IS NOT THE CURRENT VERSION

Please visit the [OWASP Top 10](OWASP_Top_10 "wikilink") project page to
find the latest edition.

**Welcome to the OWASP Top Ten 2004**

The OWASP Top Ten provides a powerful awareness document for web
application security. The OWASP Top Ten represents a broad consensus
about what the most critical web application security flaws are. Project
members include a variety of security experts from around the world who
have shared their expertise to produce this list. There are currently
versions in English, French, Japanese, and Korean. A Spanish version is
in the works. We urge all companies to adopt this awareness document
within their organization and start the process of ensuring that their
web applications do not contain these flaws. Adopting the OWASP Top Ten
is perhaps the most effective first step towards changing the software
development culture within your organization into one that produces
secure code.

## Versions

**Browse online**

  - [browse](Commentary_OWASP_Top_Ten_Project "wikilink")

**Download**

  - [English (Word)](Media:OWASP_Top_Ten_2004.doc "wikilink")
  - [English
    (PDF)](http://sourceforge.net/project/showfiles.php?group_id=64424&package_id=70827)

You can [Download International
Versions](http://sourceforge.net/project/showfiles.php?group_id=64424&package_id=70827)
from SourceForge until we get them moved to the main site. There are
versions in all of the following languages.

  - Chinese
  - English
  - French
  - Italian
  - Japanese
  - Spanish
  - Korean

## Top Ten Overview

The following list summarizes the OWASP Top Ten. However, we strongly
recommend reading the full report, as each area covers quite a lot of
ground.

  - [Commentary](Commentary_OWASP_Top_Ten_Project "wikilink")
    [Introduction](Introduction_OWASP_Top_Ten_Project "wikilink")
    [Background](Background_OWASP_Top_Ten_Project "wikilink")
    [Updates](Updates_OWASP_Top_Ten_Project "wikilink")

<!-- end list -->

  - [A1 2004 Unvalidated Input](A1_2004_Unvalidated_Input "wikilink")
    Information from web requests is not validated before being used by
    a web application. Attackers can use these flaws to attack backend
    components through a web application.

<!-- end list -->

  - [A2 2004 Broken Access
    Control](A2_2004_Broken_Access_Control "wikilink")
    Restrictions on what authenticated users are allowed to do are not
    properly enforced. Attackers can exploit these flaws to access other
    users' accounts, view sensitive files, or use unauthorized
    functions.

<!-- end list -->

  - [A3 2004 Broken Authentication and Session
    Management](A3_2004_Broken_Authentication_and_Session_Management "wikilink")
    Account credentials and session tokens are not properly protected.
    Attackers that can compromise passwords, keys, session cookies, or
    other tokens can defeat authentication restrictions and assume other
    users' identities.

<!-- end list -->

  - [A4 2004 Cross Site
    Scripting](A4_2004_Cross_Site_Scripting "wikilink")
    The web application can be used as a mechanism to transport an
    attack to an end user's browser. A successful attack can disclose
    the end user?s session token, attack the local machine, or spoof
    content to fool the user.

<!-- end list -->

  - [A5 2004 Buffer Overflow](A5_2004_Buffer_Overflow "wikilink")
    Web application components in some languages that do not properly
    validate input can be crashed and, in some cases, used to take
    control of a process. These components can include CGI, libraries,
    drivers, and web application server components.

<!-- end list -->

  - [A6 2004 Injection Flaws](A6_2004_Injection_Flaws "wikilink")
    Web applications pass parameters when they access external systems
    or the local operating system. If an attacker can embed malicious
    commands in these parameters, the external system may execute those
    commands on behalf of the web application.

<!-- end list -->

  - [A7 2004 Improper Error
    Handling](A7_2004_Improper_Error_Handling "wikilink")
    Error conditions that occur during normal operation are not handled
    properly. If an attacker can cause errors to occur that the web
    application does not handle, they can gain detailed system
    information, deny service, cause security mechanisms to fail, or
    crash the server.

<!-- end list -->

  - [A8 2004 Insecure Storage](A8_2004_Insecure_Storage "wikilink")
    Web applications frequently use cryptographic functions to protect
    information and credentials. These functions and the code to
    integrate them have proven difficult to code properly, frequently
    resulting in weak protection.

<!-- end list -->

  - [A9 2004 Application Denial of
    Service](A9_2004_Application_Denial_of_Service "wikilink")
    Attackers can consume web application resources to a point where
    other legitimate users can no longer access or use the application.
    Attackers can also lock users out of their accounts or even cause
    the entire application to fail.

<!-- end list -->

  - [A10 2004 Insecure Configuration
    Management](A10_2004_Insecure_Configuration_Management "wikilink")
    Having a strong server configuration standard is critical to a
    secure web application. These servers have many configuration
    options that affect security and are not secure out of the box.

<!-- end list -->

  - [Conclusion](Conclusion_OWASP_Top_Ten_Project "wikilink")

## Acknowledgements

OWASP would like to thank the researchers at Aspect Security for their
leadership and contributions to the Top Ten project.

The OWASP Top Ten project lead is Jeff Williams from Aspect Security. He
can be contacted at jeff.williams 'at' owasp.org.

International Translators

  - Ludovic Petit (French)
  - Satoru Takahashi (Japanese)
  - Jeremy Bae (Korean)
  - Juan Carlos Calderon, Pedro DelReal, Rogelio Morell and Javier
    Muzquiz (Spanish)
  - Weilin Zhong, Zhendong Yu, Wei Le (Chinese)

## Users and Adopters

The U.S. Federal Trade Commission strongly recommends that all companies
use the OWASP Top Ten and ensure that their partners do the same. In
addition, the U.S. Defense Information Systems Agency has listed the
OWASP Top Ten as key best practices that should be used as part of the
DOD Information Technology Security Certification and Accreditation
(C\&A) Process (DITSCAP).

In the commercial market, the [Payment Card Industry (PCI)
standard](http://usa.visa.com/download/business/accepting_visa/ops_risk_management/cisp_PCI_Data_Security_Standard.pdf)
has adopted the OWASP Top Ten, and requires (among other things) that
all merchants get a security code review for all their custom code. In
addition, a broad range of companies and agencies around the globe are
also using the OWASP Top Ten, including:

  - A.G. Edwards
  - Bank of Newport
  - Best Software
  - British Telecom
  - Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, and Firearms (ATF)
  - Cboss Internet
  - Cognizant
  - Contra Costa County, CA
  - Corillian Corporation
  - Foundstone Strategic Security
  - IBM Global Services
  - National Australia Bank
  - Norfolk Southern
  - Online Business Systems
  - Predictive Systems
  - Price Waterhouse Coopers
  - Recreational Equipment, Inc. (REI)
  - SSP Solutions
  - Samsung SDS (Korea)
  - Sempra Energy
  - Sprint
  - Sun Microsystems
  - Swiss Federal Institute of Technology
  - Texas Dept of Human Services
  - Zapatec
  - ZipForm
  - ...and many others

Several schools have also adopted the OWASP Top Ten as a part of their
curriculum, including Michigan State University (MSU), and the
University of California at San Diego (UCSD).

Several open source projects have adopted the OWASP Top Ten as part of
their security audits, including:

  - [Plone open source CMS project](http://plone.org) (managed by the
    Plone Foundation)

## Feedback

Please let us know how your organization is using the Top Ten. Include
your name, organization's name, and brief description of how you use the
list. Thanks for supporting OWASP\!

We hope you find the information in the OWASP Top Ten useful. Please
contribute back to the project by sending your comments, questions, and
suggestions to topten@owasp.org. Thanks\!

To join the OWASP Top Ten mailing list or view the archives, please
visit the [subscription
page.](http://lists.owasp.org/mailman/listinfo/owasp-topten)

## Project Sponsors

The OWASP Top Ten project is sponsored by

[Category:OWASP Project](Category:OWASP_Project "wikilink")
[Category:OWASP Document](Category:OWASP_Document "wikilink")
[Category:OWASP Download](Category:OWASP_Download "wikilink")
[Category:OWASP Top Ten
Project](Category:OWASP_Top_Ten_Project "wikilink")