Insecure software is undermining our financial, healthcare, defense,
energy, and other critical infrastructure. As our digital infrastructure
gets increasingly complex and interconnected, the difficulty of
achieving application security increases exponentially. We can no longer
afford to tolerate relatively simple security problems like those
presented in this OWASP Top 10.

The goal of the Top 10 project is to raise awareness about application
security by identifying some of the most critical risks facing
organizations. The Top 10 project is referenced by many standards,
books, tools, and organizations, including MITRE, PCI DSS, DISA, FTC,
and [many more](Industry:Citations "wikilink"). This release of the
OWASP Top 10 marks this project’s tenth anniversary of raising awareness
of the importance of application security risks. The OWASP Top 10 was
first released in 2003, with minor updates in 2004 and 2007. The 2010
version was revamped to prioritize by risk, not just prevalence. This
2013 edition follows the same approach.

We encourage you to use the Top 10 to get your organization started with
application security. Developers can learn from the mistakes of other
organizations. Executives should start thinking about how to manage the
risk that software applications create in their enterprise.

In the long term, we encourage you to create an application security
program that is compatible with your culture and technology. These
programs come in all shapes and sizes, and you should avoid attempting
to do everything prescribed by some process model. Instead, leverage
your organization’s existing strengths to do and measure what works for
you.

We hope that the OWASP Top 10 is useful to your application security
efforts. Please don’t hesitate to contact OWASP with your questions,
comments, and ideas, either publicly to <owasp-topten@lists.owasp.org>
or privately to <dave.wichers@owasp.org>.

The Open Web Application Security Project (OWASP) is an open community
dedicated to enabling organizations to develop, purchase, and maintain
applications that can be trusted. At OWASP you’ll find free and open …

  - Application security tools and standards
  - Complete books on application security testing, secure code
    development, and secure code review
  - Standard security controls and libraries
  - [Local chapters
    worldwide](https://www.owasp.org/index.php/Category:OWASP_Chapter)
  - Cutting edge research
  - [Extensive conferences
    worldwide](https://www.owasp.org/index.php/Category:OWASP_AppSec_Conference)
  - Mailing lists

Learn more at: [<https://www.owasp.org>](https://www.owasp.org/)

All of the OWASP tools, documents, forums, and chapters are free and
open to anyone interested in improving application security. We advocate
approaching application security as a people, process, and technology
problem, because the most effective approaches to application security
require improvements in all of these areas.

OWASP is a new kind of organization. Our freedom from commercial
pressures allows us to provide unbiased, practical, cost-effective
information about application security. OWASP is not affiliated with any
technology company, although we support the informed use of commercial
security technology. Similar to many open source software projects,
OWASP produces many types of materials in a collaborative, open way.

The OWASP Foundation is the non-profit entity that ensures the project’s
long-term success. Almost everyone associated with OWASP is a volunteer,
including the OWASP Board, Global Committees, Chapter Leaders, Project
Leaders, and project members. We support innovative security research
with grants and infrastructure.

Come join us\!

</td>

</tr>

</table>

[Category:OWASP Top Ten
Project](Category:OWASP_Top_Ten_Project "wikilink")