Attackers can potentially use many different paths through your
application to do harm to your business or organization. Each of these
paths represents a risk that may, or may not, be serious enough to
warrant attention. ![Risks-2017.png](Risks-2017.png "Risks-2017.png")
Sometimes these paths are trivial to find and exploit, and sometimes
they are extremely difficult. Similarly, the harm that is caused may be
of no consequence, or it may put you out of business. To determine the
risk to your organization, you can evaluate the likelihood associated
with each threat agent, attack vector, and security weakness and combine
it with an estimate of the technical and business impact to your
organization. Together, these factors determine your overall risk.

The <u>[OWASP Top 10](Top10 "wikilink")</u> focuses on identifying the
most serious web application security risks for a broad array of
organizations. For each of these risks, we provide generic information
about likelihood and technical impact using the following simple ratings
scheme, which is based on the <u>[OWASP Risk Rating
Methodology](OWASP_Risk_Rating_Methodology "wikilink")</u>.  

<center>

<table style="align:center; border-collapse: collapse; text-align:center;
              margin: 0px 5px 0px 5px; border: 3px solid #444444;
              background-color: {{Top 10:BackgroundColor|year=2017}};
              padding=2; width: 90%;">

<tr style="background-color: {{Top 10:BorderColor|year=2017}}; height: 2em; font-size: 90%; color: #FFFFFF;  text-shadow: 2px 2px 8px #444444; ">

<th style="width: 16.5%; border: 3px solid #444444;">

</th>

<th style="width: 16.5%; border: 3px solid #444444;">

</th>

<th style="width: 16.5%; border: 3px solid #444444;">

</th>

<th style="width: 16.5%; border: 3px solid #444444;">

</th>

<th style="width: 16.5%; border: 3px solid #444444;">

</th>

<th style="width: 16.5%; border: 3px solid #444444;">

</th>

</tr>

<tr>

<td style="font-weight: bold; font-size:100%; border: 3px solid #444444;" rowspan="3">

</td>

<td style="font-weight: bold; font-size: 100%; border: 3px solid #444444; " rowspan="3">

</td>

</tr>

<tr>

</tr>

<tr>

</tr>

</table>

</center>

In this edition, we have updated the risk rating system to assist in
calculating the likelihood and impact of any given risk. For more
details, please see <b><u>[Note About
Risks](Top_10-2017_Note_About_Risks "wikilink")</u></b>. 

Each organization is unique, and so are the threat actors for that
organization, their goals, and the impact of any breach. If a public
interest organization uses a content management system (CMS) for public
information and a health system uses that same exact CMS for sensitive
health records, the threat actors and business impacts can be very
different for the same software. It is critical to understand the risk
to your organization based on applicable threat agents and business
impacts.

Where possible, the names of the risks in the Top 10 are aligned with
<u>[Common Weakness Enumeration](https://cwe.mitre.org/)</u> (CWE)
weaknesses to promote generally accepted naming conventions and to
reduce confusion.

  - <u>[OWASP Risk Rating
    Methodology](OWASP_Risk_Rating_Methodology "wikilink")</u>
  - <u>[Article on Threat/Risk
    Modeling](Threat_Risk_Modeling "wikilink")</u>

<!-- end list -->

  - <u>[ISO 31000: Risk Management
    Std](https://www.iso.org/iso-31000-risk-management.html)</u>
  - <u>[ISO 27001:
    ISMS](https://www.iso.org/isoiec-27001-information-security.html)</u>
  - <u>[NIST Cyber Framework
    (US)](https://www.nist.gov/cyberframework)</u>
  - <u>[ASD Strategic Mitigations
    (AU)](https://www.asd.gov.au/infosec/mitigationstrategies.htm)</u>
  - <u>[NIST
    CVSS 3.0](https://nvd.nist.gov/vuln-metrics/cvss/v3-calculator)</u>
  - <u>[Microsoft Threat Modelling
    Tool](https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/download/details.aspx?id=49168)</u>