**Don’t stop at 10**. There are hundreds of issues that could affect the
overall security of a web application as discussed in the [OWASP
Developer's Guide](Guide "wikilink"). This is essential reading for
anyone developing web applications today. Guidance on how to effectively
find vulnerabilities in web applications are provided in the [OWASP
Testing Guide](:Category:OWASP_Testing_Project "wikilink") and the
[OWASP Code Review
Guide](:Category:OWASP_Code_Review_Project "wikilink"), which have both
been significantly updated since the previous release of the OWASP Top
10.

**Constant change**. This Top 10 will continue to change. Even without
changing a single line of your application’s code, you may already be
vulnerable to something nobody ever thought of before. Please review the
advice at the end of the Top 10 in “What’s Next For Developers,
Verifiers, and Organizations” for more information.

**Think positive**. When you’re ready to stop chasing vulnerabilities
and focus on establishing strong application security controls, OWASP
has just produced the [Application Security Verification Standard
(ASVS)](ASVS "wikilink") as a guide to organizations and application
reviewers on what to verify. Use tools wisely. Security vulnerabilities
can be quite complex and buried in mountains of code. In virtually all
cases, the most cost-effective approach for finding and eliminating
these weaknesses is human experts armed with good tools.

**Push left**. Secure web applications are only possible when a secure
software development life-cycle is used. For guidance on how to
implement a secure SDLC, we recently released the [Open Software
Assurance Maturity Model
(SAMM)](:Category:Software_Assurance_Maturity_Model "wikilink"), which
is a major update to the [OWASP CLASP
Project](:Category:OWASP_CLASP_Project "wikilink").

<div style="font-size: 150%; font-weight: bold;">

  - [Release Notes](Top_10_2010-Release_Notes "wikilink")
  - [The OWASP 2010 Top 10](Top_10_2010-Main "wikilink")
  - [What's Next for
    Developers](Top_10_2010-What's_Next_For_Developers "wikilink")
  - [What's Next for
    Verifiers](Top_10_2010-What's_Next_For_Verifiers "wikilink")
  - [What's Next for
    Organizations](Top_10_2010-What's_Next_For_Organizations "wikilink")
  - [Notes About Risk](Top_10_2010-Notes_About_Risk "wikilink")
  - [Details About Risk
    Factors](Top_10_2010-Details_About_Risk_Factors "wikilink")

</div>

Thanks to [Aspect Security](http://www.aspectsecurity.com) for
initiating, leading, and updating the OWASP Top 10 since its inception
in 2002, and to its primary authors:

  - [Jeff Williams](User:Jeff_Williams "wikilink")
  - [Dave Wichers](User:wichers "wikilink")

We’d like to thank those organizations that contributed their
vulnerability prevalence data to support the 2010 update:

  - [Aspect Security](http://www.aspectsecurity.com)
  - [MITRE](http://www.mitre.org) – [CVE](http://cve.mitre.org)
  - [Softtek](http://www.softtek.com)
  - [WhiteHat Security Inc.](http://www.whitehatsec.com) –
    [Statistics](http://www.whitehatsec.com/home/resource/stats.html)

We’d also like to thank those who have contributed significant content
or time reviewing this update of the Top 10:

  - Mike Boberski (Booz Allen Hamilton)
  - Juan Carlos Calderon ([Softtek](http://www.softtek.com))
  - Michael Coates (Aspect Security)
  - Jeremiah Grossman (WhiteHat Security Inc.)
  - Jim Manico (for all the Top 10 podcasts)
  - Paul Petefish (Solutionary, Inc.)
  - Eric Sheridan ([Aspect Security](http://www.aspectsecurity.com))
  - Neil Smithline
    ([OneStopAppSecurity.com](http://www.OneStopAppSecurity.com))
  - Andrew van der Stock
  - Colin Watson (Watson Hall, Ltd.)
  - OWASP Denmark Chapter (Led by Ulf Munkedal)
  - OWASP Sweden Chapter (Led by John Wilander)

[Category:OWASP Top Ten
Project](Category:OWASP_Top_Ten_Project "wikilink")