![<File:OWASP> Toronto Chapter.jpg](OWASP_Toronto_Chapter.jpg
"File:OWASP Toronto Chapter.jpg")

Our chapter's Google Group can be found
[here](https://groups.google.com/a/owasp.org/forum/#!forum/toronto-chapter).

The mailing list archive can be accessed from
[here.](http://sourceforge.net/mailarchive/forum.php?forum=owasp-toronto)

Our chapter's Meetup.com page is can be accessed
[here](https://www.meetup.com/OWASP-Toronto/).

## Chapter Supporters

We would like to thank the following organizations for their support and
contribution to the local Toronto chapter\!

#### Gold Local Chapter Supporter


![OWASP-Toronto-Local-Chapter-Supporter-HPE.png](OWASP-Toronto-Local-Chapter-Supporter-HPE.png
"OWASP-Toronto-Local-Chapter-Supporter-HPE.png")

#### Global Contributing Corporate Member & Silver Local Chapter Supporter


![OWASP-Toronto-Local-Chapter-Supporter-Checkmarx.png](OWASP-Toronto-Local-Chapter-Supporter-Checkmarx.png
"OWASP-Toronto-Local-Chapter-Supporter-Checkmarx.png")

#### Global Contributing Corporate Member & Local Event Supporter


![Securitycompass-stacked_%281%29.jpg](Securitycompass-stacked_%281%29.jpg
"Securitycompass-stacked_%281%29.jpg")

![Sonatype_Logo_Resized.png](Sonatype_Logo_Resized.png
"Sonatype_Logo_Resized.png")

![Security_Innovation_Logo_Premier.png](Security_Innovation_Logo_Premier.png
"Security_Innovation_Logo_Premier.png")

#### Local Event Supporter


![OWASP-Toronto-Local-Chapter-Supporter-Amazon.png](OWASP-Toronto-Local-Chapter-Supporter-Amazon.png
"OWASP-Toronto-Local-Chapter-Supporter-Amazon.png")

![OWASP-Toronto-Local-Chapter-Supporter-Shopify.png](OWASP-Toronto-Local-Chapter-Supporter-Shopify.png
"OWASP-Toronto-Local-Chapter-Supporter-Shopify.png")




# Upcoming Sessions

**Date/Time**: December 11, 2019, 6:30 PM to 8:30 PM EDT

**Location**: Room 128 (on the first floor near the library), St. James
Campus - Building A, George Brown College, 200 King Street East,
Toronto, ON, M5A 3W8

**Presentation summary:**

**OWASP IoT Top 10 - Exploring Vulnerability Root Causes**

The marketplace of Internet-connected devices for home, office and
industry is competitive and IoT vendors must evolve new features and
designs rapidly to capture market share. As a result, IoT vendors are
faced with tight profit margins and challenging technical constraints
which sometimes require them to compromise on security controls. This
presentation will introduce the OWASP IoT top 10 vulnerabilities list
and lead the attendees through common root causes for the top 10
vulnerabilities by leveraging some scaled-down practical examples. The
presentation will conclude with a few ideas on affordable and accessible
solutions for IoT product designers to consider.

**Presenter bio:**

**Nicholas Johnston**

Nick is a professor and the program coordinator Sheridan College’s
cybersecurity bachelor’s degree program. Previous to his role in
academia Nick led an incident response team, worked as a computer
forensic investigator, programmer, penetration tester, secure code
auditor and general cybersecurity consultant. You can find him on
Twitter at @nickinfosec where he’ll either be tweeting cringe-worthy
cyberpuns or sharing electronics and maker projects.

-----

# Previous Sessions

**Date/Time**: November 21, 2019, 6:30 PM to 8:30 PM EDT

**Location**: Room 128 (on the first floor near the library), St. James
Campus - Building A, George Brown College, 200 King Street East,
Toronto, ON, M5A 3W8

**Presentation summary:**

**Introduction to Web Application PenTesting**

Diving into web application penetration testing\! Bobby will introduce
concepts for web application security testing, common vulnerabilities,
pen testing methodologies and resources to help you further develop
skills. Recommended for students or individuals trying to breaking into
the offensive security space.

**Presenter bio:**

Bobby is a recent graduate working with Security Compass as a Security
Consultant. His experience and interests revolve around Application
Security. Editor's note: Bobby promises that the quality that would have
been spent on the bio has been spent on the presentation.

-----

**Date/Time**: October 24, 2019, 6:30 PM to 8:30 PM EDT

**Location**: Room 128 (on the first floor near the library), St. James
Campus - Building A, George Brown College, 200 King Street East,
Toronto, ON, M5A 3W8

**Presentation summary:**

**Half a Decade in Review: On Accidental Hacking and the "Hard"
Conversations**

A lot can change in 5 years. Half a Decade in Review is exactly what it
sounds like: an exploration of how cybersecurity has changed in half a
decade, from the perspective of an accidental “hacker.”

The nature of cybersecurity is that it extends into every technological
facet of life - so it’s not surprising that accidental hacking is not an
uncommon story; many of us were not computer experts by nature. This
facet also means that technology is still very widely operated by the
human - and so the way cybersecurity is architected is at the mercy of
human influence and temperament.

This review explores some of the human conversations that perhaps only
marginally exist in the boardroom, yet thrive in Twitter echo chambers
and Slack room gripes. They are conversations about how the
cybersecurity talent gap is deeply entwined with human trends of health
maintenance, diversity, education, and providing incentivization for
talent. They are the conversations that can be controversial because
they are deeply charged with emotions and can have significant
real-world consequences, yet do not have dichotomic answers that can be
easily expressed in the breadth of 280 characters.

**Presenter bio:**

Alana Staszczyszyn is a practicing security consultant. Her past and
present work has focused on penetration testing as well as security
governance in the public health sector. She is also heavily interested
in various political, socioeconomic, and cultural aspects of
cybersecurity, particularly on how the intersections of security and
those domains have given rise to new risks in the cyber-threat
landscape.

-----

**Date/Time**: September 18, 2019, 6:30 PM to 8:30 PM EDT

**Location**: Room 128 (on the first floor near the library), St. James
Campus - Building A, George Brown College, 200 King Street East,
Toronto, ON, M5A 3W8

**Presentation summary:**

**Attacking OAuth and SAML**

OAuth 2.0 and SAML are well-known protocols used for authorization and
authentication. From major applications like Facebook, Github to
enterprise apps these protocols are commonly seen. OAuth 2 provides
authorization flows for web and mobile apps and SAML is majorly used to
enable Single Sign On. These protocols if implemented well could really
be helpful, but considering the complexity involved with these
protocols, developers may neglect certain security best practices which
could lead to serious flaws.

This talk is to discuss the various known attacks against OAuth and SAML
in-depth, but before we dive into vulnerabilities we will spend some
time to understand how these protocols helping us understand the attack
vectors better. We will also look at open-source tools which are
available which can aid in assessments when we encounter these
protocols.

**Presenter bio:**

Harish Ramadoss is a Senior Security Consultant with Trustwave
Spiderlabs and has recently moved from UAE where he was Security
Assurance Manager for Etihad Airways. Mostly involved in offensive
security space focusing on application & infrastructure security, social
engineering, and red team engagements.

He is also the co-author of DejaVU deception platform and has presented
at a few global conferences including Blackhat and Defcon. Harish also
holds a Master's degree in Cyber Laws and Information Security.

-----

**Date/Time**: August 21, 2019, 6:30 PM to 8:30 PM EDT

**Location**: Room 128 (on the first floor near the library), St. James
Campus - Building A, George Brown College, 200 King Street East,
Toronto, ON, M5A 3W8

**Presentation summary:**

**OWASP Security with Azure App Gateway WAF, Log Analytics Monitoring
and Azure Sentinel**

Roy Kim will show an end to end configuration of Azure App Gateway in
front of Azure App Service application with Log Analytics monitoring and
Azure Sentinel. You will see a demo of a simple penetration test and how
you can monitor and alert with Log Analytics and Azure Sentinel to
detect common web attacks such as SQL injection and cross site scripting
with the App Gateway’s Web Application Firewall. You will walk away with
an understanding of how Azure App Gateway and Log Analytics is applied
as a security solution.

**Presenter bio:**

Roy is an architect/developer, multi-disciplined in solutions such as
architecture, advisory, technology leadership, developer team lead,
project coordination, systems performance, infrastructure, security and
systems architecture. He executes on multiple roles to deliver a
projects at high performance and has deep expertise with SharePoint,
.NET, JavaScript, BI development and Azure cloud services.

-----

**Date/Time**: July 17, 2019, 6:30 PM to 8:30 PM EDT

**Location**: Room 128 (on the first floor near the library), St. James
Campus - Building A, George Brown College, 200 King Street East,
Toronto, ON, M5A 3W8

**Presentation summary:**

**Export to RCE**

Often web applications will allow users to export data within CSV files.
Without proper output sanitization, poisoned CSV files can be created
leading to remote code execution when they're opened. This presentation
assumes no prior knowledge with CSV injection and will focus on all
aspects of the vulnerability (how it works, how to prevent the issue,
and more).

**Presenter bio:**

Adam Greenhill is a senior security consultant at Security Compass. He
enjoys staying up to date with the latest security trends and
researching new aspects of the industry. Adam is an active member of the
security community and has presented at BSides Toronto, OWASP Toronto,
Toronto's Cyber Security Meetup, and Sheridan College's ISSessions.

-----

**Date/Time: June 19, 2019, 6:30 PM to 8:30 PM EDT**

**Location: Room 128 (on the first floor near the library), St. James
Campus - Building A, George Brown College, 200 King Street East,
Toronto, ON, M5A 3W8**

**Presentation summary:**

**Bug Bounties: Good or Evil?**

Are Bug Bounty Programs (BBP) useful or not? How do you become a Bug
Bounty Hunter and how do you run an effective BBP for your company?

In this talk, Gurjant shares his experience as a Bug Bounty Hunter along
with some interesting stories he’s encountered along the way. He will
also discuss whether or not Bug Bounty Programs are beneficial for your
company and how to get the most out of them.

**Presenter bio:**

Gurjant Singh

Gurjant Singh is the Information Security Lead at Wealthsimple, a
Toronto based Fintech company. In his spare time, Gurjant attempts to
stay up to date with the most recent cyber security news and
technologies. He also loves teaching and has been featured in the Times
of India and Pentest Magazine.

-----

**Date/Time: May 15, 2019, 6:30 PM to 8:30 PM EDT**

**Location: Room 128 (on the first floor near the library), St. James
Campus - Building A, George Brown College, 200 King Street East,
Toronto, ON, M5A 3W8**

**Presentation summary:**

**Building a CTF: A Student's Perspective**

CTFs are fun, educational events that have become a staple in the
information security community. But have you ever considered what
actually goes on behind the scenes to make one happen?

In this talk Cameron Novina will reflect on his experience organizing
the first and second annual Sheridan CTFs. This year, a custom CTF
platform was implemented, as well as an even larger selection of
challenges; including cryptography, stenography and of course,
application security. He will cover the obstacles he and the team
overcame while implementing challenges that were designed to be attacked
by budding information security professionals, using modern
infrastructure and development practices on a tight budget.

This talk is aimed at those who have enjoyed a CTF (or many) in their
time, and want to know what goes into organizing these events, both from
a technical and event planning perspective.

**Presenter bio:**

Cameron Novina

Cameron is a Consultant with Deloitte’s Cyber Risk Advisory practice and
is currently the Vice President of Sheridan College's Information
Security Sessions Club. Cam has helped formulate and execute a variety
of information security simulations for organizations in the National
Capital Region and previously served as the club's president.

While not at work or school, Cam wrecks n00bs in overwatch (Highest SR:
3440\!) and enjoys tabletop games such as D\&D as both a player and a
Dungeon Master.

-----

**Date/Time: April 17, 2019, 6:30 PM to 9:00 PM EST**

**Location: Room 128 (on the first floor near the library), St. James
Campus - Building A, George Brown College, 200 King Street East,
Toronto, ON, M5A 3W8**

**De-identification\!**

De-identification is a way to make data sets containing personal
information statistically safe for release. It is fundamentally a risk
management solution designed to help companies comply with privacy
legislation. This talk will go over:

\- The Data Problem: the raison d’être for de-identification

\- Implementation Overview: How it is done

\- Methodologies: 4 ways to secure personal data

**Speaker bio:**

Erik Service

Erik Service is a data scientist working with Security Compass as a
management consultant. Prior to this role, he was a technical lead at
Privacy Analytics where he contributed to the commercialization of a
de-identification methodology for pharmaceutical research.

His professional interests lie at the intersection of technology and
privacy law, with a focus on how people create and consume technology.
He is a columnist for Mindthis magazine and plans to launch a blog
looking at ways to inject privacy and security into the software
development lifecycle.

Erik holds a Master of Science from McGill University. He completed a
B.A at the University of Ottawa and is credited as an author on 6
peer-reviewed science publications.

**Presentation materials:**

Below are the references to books written on the subject:        

1. El Emam, K., & Arbuckle, L. (2013). Anonymizing health data: case
studies and methods to get you started. "O'Reilly Media, Inc.". 

2. El Emam, K. (2013). Guide to the de-identification of personal health
information. Auerbach Publications.

Here are some useful youtube videos: 

  - Cynthia Dwork on e-differential privacy:
    <https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lg-VhHlztqoe>
  - Differential privacy for dummies:
    <https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gI0wk1CXlsQ>

-----

**Date/Time: March 20, 2019, 6:30 PM to 9:00 PM EST**

**Location: Room 128 (on the first floor near the library) – St. James
Campus Building A, George Brown College, 200 King Street East, Toronto,
ON, M5A 3W8**

Space is limited, so please RSVP on our [chapter event
page](https://www.meetup.com/OWASP-Toronto/events/259127655/).

**\[CMD+CTRL Web Application Cyber Range\]**

Want to test your skills in identifying web app vulnerabilities? Join
OWASP Toronto and Security Innovation as members compete in CMD+CTRL, a
web application cyber range where players exploit their way through
hundreds of vulnerabilities that lurk in business applications today.
Success means learning quickly that attack and defense is all about
thinking on your feet.

For each vulnerability you uncover, you are awarded points. Climb the
interactive leaderboard for a chance to win fantastic prizes\! CMD+CTRL
is ideal for development teams to train and develop skills, but anyone
involved in keeping your organization’s data secure can play - from
developers and managers and even CISOs. Register early to reserve your
spot \!

In addition to signing up on the meetup page, you can also register at
Security Innovation's page to receive helpful tips, FAQs, and access to
cheat sheets: - <https://web.securityinnovation.com/owasptoronto2019>

Please keep in mind that spots are limited, and registration is a first
come, first served basis\!

**CTF Proctor bio:**

Geoff Vaughn

Geoff is an Application & IT Security expert helping companies secure
software and devices throughout all stages of development. He
specializes in finding exploitable vulnerabilities in software
applications as well as reverse engineering binaries to locate
vulnerable code. Check out Geoff’s blog here:
<https://blog.securityinnovation.com/author/geoffrey-vaughan>.

Security Innovation

Security Innovation is a pioneer in software security and trusted
advisor to its clients. Since 2002, organizations have relied on our
assessment and training solutions to make the use of software systems
safer in the most challenging environments – whether in Web
applications, IoT devices, or the cloud. The company’s flagship product,
CMD+CTRL Cyber Range, is the industry’s only simulated Web site
environment designed to build the skills teams need to protect the
enterprise where it is most vulnerable – at the application layer.
Security Innovation is privately held and headquartered in Wilmington,
MA USA. For more information, visit www.securityinnovation.com or
connect with us on LinkedIn or Twitter.

-----

**Date/Time: February 20, 2019, 6:30 PM to 8:30 PM EST**

**Location: Room 128 – St. James Campus Building A, George Brown
College, 200 King Street East, Toronto, ON, M5A 3W8**

Space is limited, so please RSVP on our [chapter event
page](https://www.meetup.com/OWASP-Toronto/events/258798951/).

**[In Root we trust (no this is not a DNS
talk)](https://www.owasp.org/images/0/08/OWASP-Toronto-Feb-2019-In_Root_we_Trust.pdf)**

*Abstract*

What do airplanes, TSA pre-check, credit cards, Windows Updates, and
HTTPS all have in common? They all rely on the use of digital
certificates as a basis for the security they provide.

In this talk Pavan and Lisa will share their expertise on what a digital
certificate is, what they can be used for, and why we trust them (or not
trust them in some cases...). They will cover the fundamentals of Public
Key Infrastructure (PKI) and shed light on the critical role that Root
Certification Authorities (CAs) play in all of our lives.

This talk is aimed at those who are onboard for HTTPS everywhere but
want to dive into the nuts and bolts of how certificates work and
understand the broader applications of PKI.

*Speaker Bios:*

Pavan

Pavan is a Manager with Deloitte’s Cyber Risk Advisory practice and has
performed and led advisory work across a wide variety of domains with a
focus on network security, vulnerability management, and data
protection.

Recently, Pavan’s focus has shifted to Public Key Infrastructure (PKI)
and the Certification Authorities (CAs) that issue publicly trusted TLS
certificates. He has performed audits of both public and enterprise CAs
and has been an official witness to several root key generation
ceremonies both in Canada and internationally.

While not on an engagement, Pavan attempts to stay up to date on the
latest memes by dedicating his time to mentoring youth at his local Air
Cadet Squadron

Lisa

Lisa is a consultant in Deloitte’s Risk Advisory practice. Her
specialties include trust considerations of Public Key Infrastructure,
Cyber Security, Enterprise Risk, Internal Controls, Third Party Service
Auditor Reporting, Data Quality, Confidentiality and Privacy.
Furthermore, she is involved in the development and delivery of training
courses within the practice, and internal innovation initiatives.

-----

**Date/Time: Wednesday January 23, 2019, 6:30 PM to 8:30 PM EST**

**Location: Room 128 – St. James Campus Building A, George Brown
College, 200 King Street East, Toronto, ON, M5A 3W8**

Space is limited, so please RSVP on our [chapter event
page](https://www.meetup.com/OWASP-Toronto/events/258008651/).

**[Back to the Future of Application Security: Developing Secure Smart
Contracts](http://www.srnsec.com/blog/owasp-toronto-jan-2019-presentation-back-to-the-future-of-software-security-developing-secure-smart-contracts)**

*Abstract*

Race-conditions, re-entrancy, bad randomness, unchecked calls and
integer overflows\! No, we’re not coding a C++98 application and worried
about the Y2K bug; it’s 2019 and welcome to the world of smart
contracts\! Grab some avocado toast and GAS-up for a trip onto the
blockchain, because where we're going, we don't need roads.

We’ll start with an introduction to smart contracts and their place in
the distributed ledger technology ecosystem. We’ll delve into key
vulnerabilities from the SWC (Smart Contract Weakness) registry and link
them to real world impacts. We’ll identify smart contract flaws in
Solidity and ultimately how to mitigate them.

Ending with some key principals in building secure smart contracts and
suggested tooling to augment secure smart contract development flow. All
with a dash of lamenting how by forgetting the past we are doomed to
repeat it. And of course, no talk would be complete without a smart
contract CTF challenge, or two, for the taking.

*Speaker Bio:*

Jamie Baxter, M. Eng., OSCP, OSCE, GPEN, CISSP

Principal Consultant & Founder - SRNSEC Inc.

Jamie is an independent security consultant specializing in security
assessments, ranging from web application and infrastructure penetration
tests to red teaming exercises.

Prior to independent consulting, Jamie was the Director of Cyber
Security Assessments at RBC, a Senior Penetration Tester for the
Department of National Defense, and a developer for over 10 years.

When not on an engagement, he can be found competing in and building
CTFs or exploring the world of distributed ledger technology security.

-----

**Date/Time: Wednesday December 5, 2018, 6:30 PM to 8:30 PM EST**

**Location: Lecture Hall Room 426A – St. James Campus Building A, George
Brown College, 200 King Street East, Toronto, ON, M5A 3W8**

Space is limited, so please RSVP on our [chapter event
page](https://www.meetup.com/OWASP-Toronto/events/256615463/).

**[Web Application Penetration Testing - Methodology and
Approach](https://www.owasp.org/images/5/5b/OWASP-Toronto-Dec-2018-Web_Application-Penetration-Testing.pdf)**

*Abstract*

An introduction to web application penetration testing covering common
methodologies and approaches. Topics are: An overview of the business
side of how these engagements are commonly run, the methodology and
mind-state of penetration testing vs. vulnerability assessments, and a
demo using industry standard tools. Recommended for people who are new
to the offensive side of security, those interested in learning more
about the topic, or who are interested in potentially switching from
blue to red team.

*Bios:*

Frank Coburn

Frank is a Consultant who specializes in web application security
testing and analysis, and cloud security. I began my career in Canada’s
financial sector in 2015 and have been performing web application
penetration tests for various local and remote clients ever since. I
have managed many client relationships and a multitude of other projects
in Information Security across various industries. In my copious free
time I enjoy working on personal projects such as developing scripts,
tooling, and creating testing environments.

Haris Mahboob

I work at Security Compass as a security consultant. I specialize in
penetration testing web applications and network infrastructures. I have
experience working with industry standard SAST/DAST tools and manual
testing. I come from a healthcare background working with SIEM tools,
vulnerability scanning and management, as well as secure auditing. I
enjoy spending my free time honing my penetration testing skills by
diving into vulnerable VMs and learning about exotic payloads.

-----

**Date/Time: Wednesday November 14, 2018, 6:00 PM to 8 PM EST**

**Location: Security Compass, 390 Queens Quay West, Suite 209, Toronto
ON, M5V 3A6**

Space is limited, so please RSVP on our [chapter event
page](https://www.meetup.com/OWASP-Toronto/events/255890795/).

**Sonatype DevSecOps Community Survey - Working Session**

*DevOps is Security’s New Front Line*

As we embrace movements like CI, CD and Devops to cut down on release
cycles - and innovate faster, we as developers must also embrace the
reality that the risk landscape is too complex to leave “security” to
just those with security in their title. Traditional methods do not cut
it anymore – it’s time for DevSecOps.

In a recent 2018 DevSecOps Community report, where 2,076 IT
professionals were surveyed, 48% of respondents admitted that developers
know application security is important, but they don’t have the time to
spend on it. Done properly, DevSecOps practices shouldn’t interrupt the
DevOps pipeline - but instead aid it - preventing costly rebuilds and
build breaks, down the road.

Attendees of this session will walk away with:

  - Real-world examples of how large and small companies are
    implementing DevSecOps practices in their own delivery pipelines,
    and increasing developer awareness to risks
  - Key insights from 2,076 of their peers who participated in the 2018
    DevSecOps community report - including where most mature DevOps
    practices are focusing their security efforts
  - A walkthrough of how security principles have been embedded in a
    CICD pipeline and what standards for implementation are beginning to
    follow suit.

-----

**Date/Time: Monday September 17, 2018, 6:00 PM to 8 PM EDT**

**Location: 80 Spadina Avenue, Toronto, ON**

Space is limited, so please RSVP on our [chapter event
page](https://www.meetup.com/OWASP-Toronto/events/254415501/).

6-7 PM

**"iOS App runtime manipulation"** with Ivan Rodriguez

In this talk, we'll learn how to decrypt and extract an iOS application
from a device, and use reverse engineering techniques to manipulate the
app at runtime.

*Ivan Rodriguez is an Application Security Engineer at Shopify with a
mobile development background, currently working in application
security.*

7-8PM

**"Auditing/Pen Testing Android Apps"** with Kristina Balaam

As our world becomes more dependent on mobile devices, it's important to
understand the risks we may unknowingly introduce to users through the
applications we build. In this talk, we'll cover general Android
security best practices, discuss tools for auditing your own
applications to find vulnerabilities, and resources for continued
learning.

*Kristina is a Security Intelligence Engineer at Lookout where she
reverse engineers mobile malware. Prior to Lookout, she worked as an
Application Security Engineer at Shopify focusing mostly on Android
mobile security. Kristina graduated with a Bachelor of Computer Science
from McGill University in 2012, and is currently pursuing a MSc. in
Information Security Engineering from the SANS Institute of Technology.
She blogs about computer security on Twitter, Instagram and Youtube
under the handle @chmodxx.*

-----

**Date/Time: Monday October 1, 2018, 6:00 PM to 8 PM EDT**

**Location: 80 Spadina Avenue, Toronto, ON**

Space is limited, so please RSVP on our [chapter event
page](https://www.meetup.com/OWASP-Toronto/events/254280021/).

**Azure Cloud Security Workshop**

By: Tanya Janca, OWASP Ottawa Chapter Co-Leader

*Tanya Janca is a senior cloud developer advocate for Microsoft,
specializing in application security; evangelizing software security and
advocating for developers through public speaking, her open source
project OWASP DevSlop, and various forms of teaching via workshops,
blogs and community events. As an ethical hacker, OWASP Project and
Chapter Leader, software developer and professional computer geek of 20+
years, she is a person who is truly fascinated by the ‘science’ of
computer science.*

You can find out more about Tanya here:

@SheHacksPurple

<http://devslop.co/>

<https://medium.com/@shehackspurple>

<https://www.slideshare.net/TanyaJanca>

<https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCyxbNw11fMUgoR3XpVYVPIQ>

<https://www.twitch.tv/shehackspurple>

Have you ever wondered how security is different ‘in the cloud’? Where
do you store your certificates? Your keys? Your connection strings? How
can you see what’s going on with your resources? How do you patch? Where
can you see your server configs other important information? How do you
manage an security incident? How do you even know that you’re having an
incident?

This first half of this workshop will be a demo where the audience
follows along, the second part will be for audience members to build
things and secure them, in Azure.

Demo will include:

  - Complete Azure Security Centre walkthrough
  - Policy and compliance, including subscription coverage
  - Resource Security Hygiene
  - Azure Security Centre Recommendations (mitigation of one or more
    items, dependent on time)
  - Threat Protection, Alerts and Threats
  - Applying System Updates
  - Key Vault

**Audience Participation** (people who do not have a laptop can follow
along with the teacher)

  - Create a DevOps project, from scratch, and publish to the internet.
    (20-30 mins)
  - Turn on Security Centre (5 mins)
  - Check your security configurations and settings to ensure your new
    app is safe. (10 mins)
  - More as time permits.

What you will need if you want to participate after the demo:

  - A laptop running any modern operating system (Mac OS, Windows,
    Linux)
  - Modern web browser (Safari, Edge, Chrome, FireFox)
  - Wi-fi and internet
  - An activated Azure Trial. Please activate your trial before the
    workshop. The workshop will not wait if you have not activated your
    trail.

To activate your free Azure trail for this workshop please go here:
<https://aka.ms/Azure-Cloud-Security-Workshop>

\>\> If you have previously used your free Azure Trail you will not be
able to have another one for this workshop.

\>\> You will need to use a credit card to activate your trial, but the
trial itself is free for 30 days, up to $200. We will use up to $30 of
your credit with this workshop.

-----

**Date/Time: July 18, 2018, 6:00 PM to 8 PM EDT**

**Location: 420 Wellington Street West, Toronto, ON**

Space is limited, so please RSVP on our [chapter event
page](https://www.meetup.com/OWASP-Toronto/events/252646871/).

**Panel Discussion: DevSecOps**

We invite you to join us for a panel discussion on DevSecOps. Panelists
will include AppSec professionals currently involved with growing their
DevSecOps practice internally, or advising clients on DevSecOps
initiatives in a consulting capacity. Our moderator will invite them to
share their insights on topics that include:

  - Role and current DevSecOps practices
  - Success stories and challenges
  - Advice for getting into DevSecOps
  - Standards, tools, frameworks

Come prepared to learn, discuss, share and ask questions\!

-----

**Date/Time: June 12, 2018, 6:00 PM to 8 PM EDT**

**Location: Suite 500, 257 Adelaide St. W., Toronto, ON**

Space is limited, so please RSVP on our [chapter event
page](https://www.meetup.com/OWASP-Toronto/events/251502769/).

**[How to stop worrying about Application Container Security
(v2)](https://www.owasp.org/images/6/6d/OWASP_2018_-_How_to_stop_worrying_about_Application_Container_Security_v2_-_Andrzejewski.pdf)**

Containers make it easier to deploy the applications that drive business
value, but also profoundly challenge existing security models. Learn
from our journey as a security team that went from not knowing what
containers were to championing their adoption in our production
sensitive information workloads over traditional DevOps application
deployments.

  - About Us
  - Our Application & Security Challenges
  - Our Container Journey
  - Building an Container Ecosystem
  - Learning Secure Application Containers
  - Benefits for DevOps and Security
  - Our Container Security Maturity Model
  - What’s Next

**Presenter: Brian Andrzejewski (@DevSecOpsGeer)**

*Brian was the lead Information Security Engineer in the CyberDefense
Branch at the United States Customs and Immigration Services (USCIS). He
led, engineered, and architected several of USCIS’s security efforts and
represented USCIS as a hands-on SME in several working groups within DHS
and Federal government on DevSecOps, Application Security, Cloud
Migration & Security, Container Security, and CyberDefense operations
best practices.*

*Prior to USCIS, Brian brings his prior 17+ years of professional
experiences in information security, risk management, IT Operations,
system development & administration, & DFIR from the Department of
Defense, healthcare, commercial, and academic sectors. He was a prior
DoD SME representative in U.S. cybersecurity workforce development
programs and operationalized machine-speed cyber threat information
sharing between the five U.S. National Cyber Centers. He remains
passionate about cybersecurity workforce development and information
security education with non-profits and security researchers.*

-----

**Date/Time: May 28, 2018, 6:00 PM to 8 PM EDT**

**Location: Suite 500, 257 Adelaide St. W., Toronto, ON**

Space is limited, so please RSVP on our [chapter event
page](https://www.meetup.com/OWASP-Toronto/events/250811475/).

**OWASP SecurityRAT: Handling of Security Requirements in Software
Development Lifecycle**

The bigger the company you're working in, the more technologies and
methodologies used by development teams you are going to face. At the
same time, you want to address security risks in an appropriate,
reliable and traceable way for all of them.

After a short introduction of a unified process for handling security
requirements in a large company, the main part of the talk is going to
focus on a tool called SecurityRAT which we developed in order to
support and accelerate this process.

The goal of the tool is first to provide a list of relevant security
requirements according to properties of the developed software (e.g.
type of software, criticality), and afterwards to handle these in a
mostly automated way - integration with an issue tracker being used as a
core feature.

Work in progress (currently targeting mainly integration to other
systems, automated testing of requirements and reporting) as well as
future plans will form the last part of the talk.

**Speakers:**

**Daniel Kefer** **OWASP SecurityRAT - Project Leader**

*Daniel Kefer has been working in the application security field since
2007. Having started as a penetration tester, he soon became passionate
about proactive security efforts and working closely with developers.
Since 2011 he has been working for 1&1 where he currently leads an
internal application security team supporting development teams with
security challenges of their work. With OWASP, he leads the SecurityRAT
project and contributes to the SAMM project.*

**René Reuter** **OWASP SecurityRAT - Project Leader**

*René Reuter is a security engineer with over 6 years of experience in
the application security field. At Robert Bosch GmbH, he works as an IT
Security Consultant responsible for identifying vulnerabilities and
design flaws that may impact Robert Boschs' applications and
infrastructure. René holds a Master's Degree in Computer Science from
the University of Applied Sciences Karlsruhe.*

-----

**Date/Time: April 26, 2018, 6:00 PM to 8 PM EDT**

**Location: Suite 500, 257 Adelaide St. W., Toronto, ON**

Space is limited, so please RSVP on our [Meetup.com chapter event
page](https://www.meetup.com/OWASP-Toronto/events/249233912/).

**[CISO's 90 Day
Plan](https://www.owasp.org/images/6/6d/OWASP_Toronto_-_CISO_90_Day_Plan_-_Nelson_Chen_-_2018-04-28.pdf)**

**Agenda**

*Developing and deploying a security strategy from the ground up. Nelson
will cover Security Policy development, Team Building, Data
Classification, Assessment/Prioritization, Application Security,
Security Awareness, Deployment and Monitoring / Incident Response. We
will reserve ample time for Q\&A.*

**Speaker: Nelson Chen**

*An accomplished 20+ year IT Security leader (CISSP/CISA/CISM) with
global enterprise-wide responsibilities. Nelson has experience that
ranges from startup to large, high-tech enterprise environments with
extensive background with information systems management, information
security practices, risk assessment, contingency planning, vendor
management, merger & acquisition, project management and business
development. He has deployed security policies and strategies for his
previous employer to over two dozen acquisitions and today he works for
Zenedge, a successful cybersecurity startup that was recently purchased
by Oracle.*

-----

**Date/Time: April 11, 2018, 6:00 PM to 8 PM EDT**

**Location: Suite 500, 257 Adelaide St. W., Toronto, ON**

Space is limited, so please RSVP on our [Meetup.com chapter event
page](https://www.meetup.com/OWASP-Toronto/events/249233869/).

''' Application Threat Modeling '''

*This session will introduce you to the basics of application threat
modeling using the OWASP Cornucopia and Microsoft Elevation of
Privileges games. We will provide an introduction to the game concepts,
and then attendees will join groups where they will get hands on game
experience threat modeling a sample application. Come prepared to
participate\!*

-----

**Date/Time: February 27, 2018, 6:00 - 8:00 PM EST**

**Location: Suite 500, 257 Adelaide St. W., Toronto, ON**

Space is limited, so please RSVP on our [Meetup.com chapter event
page](https://www.meetup.com/OWASP-Toronto/events/247658687/).

''' “How to Work a Room” Basic Networking Skills '''

*Helping individuals achieve their personal goals by teaching and
coaching effective networking*

*Intro by OWASP Toronto:* As AppSec and information security
professionals, we work in a field where technical knowledge is key,
while networking and communications skills, which are just as important,
are often overlooked. Marcel's insights on effective networking will
help you be more successful in your roles within your organizations, or
help you be better prepared to enter the security workforce."

**Speaker: Marcel Gagnier**

Marcel is a successful sales technology executive with over 20 years
experence in sales and account management. He owes his success primarily
to his networking skills.

Networking has allowed Marcel to develop relationships, and business,
and to support a wide range of interests as well as lifelong
friendships.

As with many people networking did not come easily to Marcel. It is a
learned skill that he first developed while in the British Army starting
with human intelligence (HUMINT) on operations. These skills became
further refined when conducting threat assessments and social
engineering. These networking skills allowed Marcel to easily transition
into the civilian world in a variety of roles and in both small and
large firms.

Marcel will share his insights in a workshop called “How to Work a Room”
where basic networking skills will be covered.

You will learn the following:  

  - The basics of networking - how it works
  - What events to attend and what events not to attend
  - How to research the event and attendees
  - Setting event goals
  - What to wear
  - What to carry
  - When to arrive
  - How to read the room
  - How to engage the best prospects
  - How to make an introduction
  - How to engage in conversation
  - How to exchange contacts and business cards
  - How to disengage
  - How to follow-up

-----

**Date/Time: January 17, 2018, 6:00 - 8:00 PM EST**

**Location: Suite 500, 257 Adelaide St. W., Toronto, ON**

Space is limited, so please RSVP on our [Meetup.com chapter event
page](https://www.meetup.com/OWASP-Toronto/events/246663547/).

**[Hi, I am X. How do I get into AppSec /
Security?](https://www.owasp.org/images/7/7a/OWASP_Toronto_January_2018.pdf)**

This will be a guided discussion about entering the world of application
security, or information security in general. We will cover topics such
as OWASP resources, tools, secure SDLC, agile, secure DevOps, training
and certifications. We will also have some real life stories from folks
in the industry about their path. Come prepared to participate\!

-----

**Date/Time: October 26, 2017, 6:00 - 8:00 PM EDT**

**Location: Suite 500, 257 Adelaide St. W., Toronto, ON**

Space is limited, so please RSVP on our [Meetup.com chapter event
page](https://www.meetup.com/OWASP-Toronto/events/244092307/).

**[Swiss cheese security, or the real challenges faced by internet
facing
companies](https://www.owasp.org/images/f/f8/Branca_Owasp_Toronto_2017.pdf)**

**Summary**

In this talk we will get an overview of which are the challenges faced
by companies that have an internet presence, but instead of focusing on
well know attacks we will focus on targeted and stealthy attacks.

Each scenario will be described and explained by using data collected
over the years, and for each case we will discuss not only attack and
defense strategies but also some legal implications and possible impact
to the business.

**Brief Presenter Bio:**

**Enrico Branca**

Enrico Branca is an experienced researcher with specialist knowledge in
Cyber Security. He has been working in Information Security for over a
decade with experience in Software Security, Information Security
Management, and Cyber Security R\&D. He has been trained and worked in
various roles during his career, including Senior Security Engineer,
Security Architect, Disaster Recovery Specialist, Microsoft Security
Specialist and others, always looking for new exiting opportunities.

**Outline**

  - what main stream news say about cyber security
  - what industry says about cyber security
  - how can we dispute the claims with a reality check
  - example 1: are financial and insurance companies well defended?
  - example 2: web encryption with SSL/TLS, defending from unknown
    attacks
  - example 3: the state of GPG public key cryptography, can we trust
    it?
  - example 4: software companies and version controls, useful or
    useless?
  - example 5: targeted data breach or "indirect" breach,
  - what has been found without any sort of cyber attack
  - what can be learned from others' mistakes
  - what can be done to make things better

-----

**Date/Time: August 23, 2017, 6:00 - 8:00 PM EDT**

**Location: Suite 500, 257 Adelaide St. W., Toronto, ON**

Space is limited, so please RSVP on our [Meetup.com chapter event
page](https://www.meetup.com/OWASP-Toronto/events/242386514/).

**Session Description:**

**[Cloud Security & Best Practice in
AWS](https://www.owasp.org/images/4/4f/OWASP_Toronto_-_Aug_2017_-_Cloud_Security_%26_Best_Practice_in_AWS_by_Ankit_Giri.pdf)**

  - Few instances of breach in cloud (AWS): Account compromise via leak
    of AWS Keys on GitHub SSRF attack Publicly accessible S3 Bucket,
    folders, and files
  - How Jenkins (CI) can lead to disaster
  - Best practices to protect AWS account from unauthorized access and
    usage
  - What and How to look for security loopholes
  - Audit scripts

**Presenter Bio:**

**Ankit Giri**

A complete tech enthusiast, who likes to learn new technologies. With
his expertise in Application Security, Ankit works as Associate Security
Consultant for Security Compass. A speaker, presenter, and a blogger,
Ankit has a diverse background in writing informational blogs during his
association with TO THE NEW Digital (last firm). He is a nature lover,
photography enthusiast and avid follower of governance. Being in
application security domain, Ankit also takes an interest in RTI
activism and carry it as a skill with RTI certifications.Expertise:
Penetration Tester, OWASP Top 10 Vulnerabilities understanding,
detection, and remediation. Blogger, Bug Bounty enthusiast, One of the
Top rated writer on Quora: The Most Viewed Writer in Web Application
Security, The Most Viewed Writer in Pentest, Second Most Viewed Writers
in Network Security. Featured in Hall of Fame of EFF, GM, HTC, Sony,
Mobikwik, AT\&T, PagerDuty and many others. He is a chapter leader of
Peerlyst Delhi NCR Chapter. Special mention and a note of thank for
posting the first SecLink on the platform Sectivenet.

-----

**Date/Time: June 13, 2017, 6:00 - 8:00 PM EDT**

**Location: Suite 500, 257 Adelaide St. W., Toronto, ON**

Space is limited, so please RSVP
[here](https://www.meetup.com/OWASP-Toronto/events/240436834/) to
confirm your presence.

**Session Description:**

**[The Node.js Highway: Attacks Are At Full
Throttle](https://www.owasp.org/images/c/c8/OWASP_Toronto_2017-TheNode_jsHighwayAttacksAreAtFullThrottle-Checkmarx.pdf)**

Node.js is the drive-and-go language and its popularity is soaring. Five
years after its debut, and the language’s framework boasts more 2M
downloads a month. Before accelerating too quickly, it is important to
understand the power – and corresponding mishaps – of this language. In
this talk, we demonstrate new attack techniques against applications
built on top of the Node.js language. Attacks include:

  - Application-layer DDoS attacks. Bringing a server to its knees with
    just 4(\!) requests.
  - Password exposure attacks. Leveraging the “Forgot My Password”
    feature of applications in order to reveal the passwords of all the
    application’s users
  - Business logic attacks. Running malicious code on all machines of
    users of the applications when exploiting a weak business feature.

**Presenter Bio:**

**Susan St.Clair, CWAPT**

**Solution Engineer – Checkmarx**

Susan currently works with organizations to help implement secure coding
practices as part of their SDLC as part of the Checkmarx GTA team. She
has over 15 years of experience working with application teams in the
software industry.

She was previously a product manager and solution engineer with
Codiscope, now part of Synopsys.

-----

**Date/Time: May 25, 2017, 6:00 - 8:00 PM EDT**

**Location: Suite 500, 257 Adelaide St. W., Toronto, ON**

Space is limited, so please RSVP
[here](https://www.meetup.com/OWASP-Toronto/events/240037544/) to
confirm your presence.

**Session Description:**

**Category Web: Fantastic Tales of Capture-The-Flag (CTF) challenges
past**

We’ll dive into some of our favorite application security challenges
from past Capture-The-Flag (CTF) competitions, including highlights from
the recent 2017 edition of NorthSec, the largest applied security
competition in North America. The challenges we’ll walk through were not
only fun to solve but have a demonstrable real-world impact drawing on
subtle flaws that lurk in many production applications. So bring your
laptops and strap-in, this talk will be interactive and at the end of
the night we’ll have a few challenges to take home with you.

*Optional: If you want to follow along on your laptop as Jamie goes over
the challenge walkthroughs, you will need at least VMware / Virtual Box
to run a virtual machine, 8 GB of free space, and a web proxy such as
Burp Suite or OWASP ZAP.*

**Presenter Bio:**

**Jamie Baxter, GPEN, OSCE, OSCP, CISSP**

**Principal Consultant & Founder - SRNSEC Inc.**

Jamie is the team captain of a successful CTF (Capture the Flag) team
“SomeRandomName” (SrN), which regularly competes in and organizes CTF
events. When not CTFing, Jamie is a independent information security
consultant specializing in security assessments, performing
infrastructure and application penetration testing engagements for
clients in the government, retail and financial sectors.

Previously, Jamie was the Director of Cyber Security Assessments at the
Royal Bank of Canada and a senior penetration tester for the Department
of National Defense.

-----

**Date/Time: April 20, 2017, 6:00 - 8:00 PM EDT**

**Location: [Auditorium, Lilian H Smith Library, 239 College Street,
Toronto, ON
M5T1R5](http://www.torontopubliclibrary.ca/detail.jsp?R=LIB011)**

**Agenda:**

**How Billion Dollar Enterprises Manage Application Security at Scale**

Security Compass recently completed a comprehensive research study by
surveying companies across multiple industries with the goal of
discovering how large, complex organizations address application
security at scale. The majority of respondents surveyed were
multinational organizations who reported annual earnings greater than $1
billion USD. Through this new research study, we have gleamed novel
insights on how large organizations manage application security at
scale. Through this presentation, we will reveal aggregated insights,
industry trends, and best practices that illuminate how organizations
are addressing application security at scale, so that you may apply and
compare these learnings to the state of application security at your own
organization.

*Altaz Valani is a Research Director at Security Compass responsible for
managing the overall research vision and team. Prior to joining Security
Compass, Altaz was a Senior Research Director in the Application
Development Practice at Info-Tech Research Group providing IT managers,
directors, and senior managers with guidance and analysis around
application development – including Agile, Cloud, Mobile, and the
overall SDLC. His other past positions include Senior Manager at KPMG,
and various entrepreneurial and intrapreneurial positions where he
worked side by side with senior-level stakeholders at blue chip clients
to drive business value through software development.*

*Altaz enjoys coding, teaching, and the challenge of learning. He
received his BEng in Computer Engineering from McMaster University, and
his MBA from the University of Western Ontario.*

-----

**Date/Time: March 15, 2017, 6:00 - 8:00 PM EDT**

**Location: Amazon, 120 Bremner Blvd, Suite 2600, Toronto, ON**

**IMPORTANT** - We are making special changes to our RSVP process to
adapt to this new venue:

• ONLY attendees who confirmed through [our chapter's Meetup.com event
page](https://www.meetup.com/OWASP-Toronto/events/238149169/) will be
allowed entry. So please confirm your presence if you are planning to
come. This is required so that visitor badges can be created for those
on the list and provided by the reception at the Amazon office.

• The RSVP period will run from March 3 to March 12. This is to allow
enough time for visitor badges to be created, and to plan for the
event's logistics.

• If you need to make change to your attendance status, please do so by
March 12. We understand that plans change, but given a limited space,
please be mindful of others in the community who may benefit from the
event.If you have any questions, please feel free to reach reach out to
us.

**Agenda:**

**1 - [Overview and Intro to OWASP
Projects](https://www.owasp.org/images/0/08/OWASP_Toronto_March_2017_Intro_%26_Projects.pdf)
- Yuk Fai Chan**

A quick overview of the OWASP will be presented for those who are
unfamiliar with the global organization, followed by a introduction of
OWASP Projects - the process, the people, and some examples - from
Flagship, Lab to Incubator.

*Yuk Fai Chan is with the OWASP Toronto chapter. He also works as a
security consultant.*

**2 - Vulnerabilities from upstream on down - Max Veytsman**

Security vulnerabilities in open source software are patched by
maintainers every day, but most of the software your servers have
installed is coming from a package manager.

When a new vulnerability in openssl is disclosed, how does it make it to
the corresponding Ubuntu package? How long does it take?

Every distribution has a security team. I'm going to describe the work
that they do, talk about how vulnerabilities are prioritized and discuss
some statistics about their operations.

*Max Veytsman is a recovering pentester. Nowadays, he's helping the
world patch its software at Appcanary.*

-----

**Date/Time: February 16, 2017, 6:00 - 8:00 PM EST**

**Location: Suite 500, 257 Adelaide St. W., Toronto, ON**

Please RSVP
[here](https://www.meetup.com/OWASP-Toronto/events/237199069/) to
confirm your presence.

**Secure Programming with Static Analysis**

*Please join us at our next OWASP Toronto chapter event, where our guest
speaker, Paul Kitor from HP Enterprise, will be sharing his thoughts on
Secure Programming with Static Analysis.*

**Speaker: Paul Kitor**

Paul Kitor, CISSP is a Senior Solution Architect focused on Fortify
technologies within the Enterprise Security Products business unit at
HP. In this role, Mr. Kitor acts as the primary technical advisor to
develop and position a broad range of Application Security solutions
with customers. In his responsibilities, Paul provides technical
leadership and technical depth concerning HP Fortify solutions. He works
closely with customers and partners in assisting them meet their
strategic Application Security initiatives and also provides thought
leadership and insight regarding the ever changing global threat
landscape. He possesses 20+ years of Information Security experience in
the areas of Application Architecture, Java/C/C++ Development, Agile
SDLC, and Application Security. Prior to joining HP Canada, Paul worked
as a Solution Architect at Oracle, BEA Systems, and Borland Software he
also lead Java development teams at Airmiles.ca and Points.com.

**Abstract:**

Developing software securely is a very challenging task. Using a
combination of theory, practice and technology gives you the best chance
of success. This talk will introduce (for those practitioners among us –
review) the theory, practices and technologies that comprise Static
Analysis.

  - The Software Security Problem
  - Static Analysis
  - Introduction
  - As Part of the Code Review Process
  - Internals
  - Pervasive Problems
  - Handling Input
  - Buffer Overflow
  - Bride of Buffer Overflow
  - Errors and Exceptions

-----

**Date/Time: July 20, 2016, 6:00 - 8:00 PM EDT**

**Location: Suite 500, 257 Adelaide St. W., Toronto, ON**

Please RSVP
[here](http://www.meetup.com/OWASP-Toronto/events/232455360/) to confirm
your presence.

**Panel Discussion: OWASP Top 10**

*We invite you to join us at our next chapter event, where panelists
will discuss one of OWASP's flagship projects, the OWASP Top 10
application security flaws. The discussion will include:*

  - *Roundtable on select items on the OWASP Top 10 (e.g. injection
    flaws, security misconfigurations, CSRF, etc.)*
  - *Thoughts on candidates for the 2016/2017 release of the OWASP Top
    10 (e.g. what should be added? what should be removed?)*

*Come prepared to learn, discuss, share and ask questions\!*

-----

**Date/Time: June 8, 2016, 6:00 - 8:00 PM EDT**

**Location: Suite 500, 257 Adelaide St. W., Toronto, ON**

Please RSVP
[here](http://www.meetup.com/OWASP-Toronto/events/231439108/) to confirm
your presence.

**Panel Discussion: Day in the Life of An Application Security
Professional**

*We invite you to join us at our next OWASP Toronto chapter meeting,
where panelists will discuss their day-to-day life as an application
security professional, followed by an open discussion with the audience.
Come prepared to learn, discuss, share, and ask questions\!*

Panelists:

  - Steve Gienuisz, Software Security Specialist, BMO Financial Group
  - Ramanan Sivaranjan, Director of Engineering, Security Compass
  - Yuk Fai Chan, OWASP Toronto Chapter
  - Tej Gandhi, Information Security Compliance Specialist, Engage
    People Inc.

-----

**Date/Time: January 20, 2016, 6:00 - 8:00 PM EST**

**Location: Suite 500, 257 Adelaide St. W., Toronto, ON**

Please RSVP
[here](http://www.meetup.com/OWASP-Toronto/events/227847887/) to confirm
your presence.

**Speaker: Michael Bennet**

*Lead DDoS Strike Developer, Security Compass*

**Is your Application DDoS Ready?**

*Common issues that leave your application DDoS defences vulnerable*

More and more DDoS attacks are targeting the Application Layer in order
to knock your sites and services offline. These attacks need far less
horsepower to drive results and often target weaknesses in an
application and its defences in order to be effective. While there are
solutions available to protect your application, they can only do so
much and often are misconfigured for an application. In this
presentation I’ll talk about common misconfigurations that we come
across during our DDoS testing, as well as some web application design
considerations that help some DDoS defences to be more effective.

-----

**Date/Time: November 18, 2015, 6:00 - 8:00 PM EST**

**Location: Suite 500, 257 Adelaide St. W., Toronto, ON**

Please RSVP
[here](http://www.meetup.com/OWASP-Toronto/events/226528846/) to confirm
your presence.

**Python Security**

''Speaker: Enrico Branca ''

Enrico Branca is an experienced researcher with specialist knowledge in
Cyber Security. He has been working in Information Security for over a
decade with experience in Software Security, Information Security
Management, and Cyber Security R\&D. He has been trained and worked in
various roles during his career, including Senior Security Engineer,
Security Architect, Disaster Recovery Specialist, and Microsoft Security
Specialist. He is always looking for new and exciting opportunities.

*Session Outline:*

A deep dive into the security of the Python interpreter and its core
libraries to discover how bad guys may attack it and how good guys can
protect it, while providing examples and code snippets on how each goal
may be achieved by any given party.

Enrico's presentation slides can be found
*[here](https://www.owasp.org/images/9/9f/OWASP_MeetupTO.pdf)*.

-----

**Date/Time: May 20, 2015, 6:00 - 8:00 PM EDT**

**Location: Suite 500, 257 Adelaide St. W., Toronto, ON**

Please RSVP
[here](https://www.eventbrite.ca/e/owasp-toronto-may-2015-tickets-16870676648)
to confirm your presence.

**Panel Discussion: State of Application Security in 2015**

We invite you to join us at our next OWASP Toronto chapter meeting,
where a panel of industry professionals will discuss the state of
application security in 2015. Panelists will share their point of view
on a number of topics, followed by an open discussion with the audience.
Come prepared to learn, discuss, share, and ask questions\!

1.  Appsec Wishlist: "If I could have one thing improved in application
    security in 2015, it would be ..."
2.  Appsec Defenders: Offensive Security is obviously thriving, but how
    are the Defenders doing? Has there been improvement? There are
    plenty of blackhat/red team rock stars, but are we giving enough
    credit to the blue teams?
3.  Appsec Tools: Which application security tools are doing the job
    right? Which ones can be further improved?
4.  Evolution of Application Security Assessments: How will the industry
    effect a sea change in attitude towards assessing software for
    security issues? The tunnel-vision model (i.e., black-box only,
    source code review only, configuration review only) is deficient,
    and the best approach is to overlap as many techniques as possible.
    Time-boxed approaches compound the problem, and with the increasing
    proliferation and complexity of applications in any given
    organization, scaling assessment services to all targets is
    bottlenecked.
5.  Appsec Talent: There are too few skilled/trained information
    security professionals, and too much work to do. Scaling up to meet
    the demand can only partially be managed through automation. Where
    will the next wave of reliable security professionals come from? Is
    training for information security skills too expensive in the age
    Code School? Is North Armerica in need of a CREST-like certification
    to establish a baseline level of coverage by a practitioner?

**Panelists**

Ehsan Foroughi, Security Compass

Manish Khera, RBC

Gonzalo Nunez, Deloitte

Ann-Marie Westgate, eHealth Ontario

-----

**Date/Time: September 10, 2014, 6:30 - 8:30 PM EDT**

**Location: Suite 500, 257 Adelaide St. W., Toronto, ON**

Please RSVP
[here](https://www.eventbrite.ca/e/owasp-toronto-september-2014-tickets-12733754001)
to confirm your presence.

**Speaker:**

Ryan Berg

Ryan is the Chief Security Officer at Sonatype. Before joining Sonatype,
Ryan was a co-founder and chief scientist for Ounce Labs which was
acquired by IBM in 2009. Ryan holds multiple patents and is a popular
speaker, instructor and author, in the fields of security, risk
management, and secure application development. Prior to Ounce Labs,
Ryan co-founded Qiave Technologies, a pioneer in kernel-level security,
which later sold to WatchGuard Technologies in 2000. In the late 1990's,
Ryan also designed and developed the infrastructure for GTE
Internetworking/Genuity's appliance-based managed security services.

**Session Outline:**

*[What's Hiding in Your Software Components? Hidden Risks of
Component-Based Software Development – Seeing the Forest Through the
Trees](https://www.owasp.org/images/e/ee/OWASP_TORONTO_SEP_2014_Ryan_Berg.pdf)*

Software is no longer written, it's assembled. With 80% of a typical
application now being assembled from components, it's time to take a
hard look at the new risks posed by this type of development -- and the
processes and tools that we'll need in order to keep them in check. Join
Ryan Berg as he shares real world data on component risks, outlines the
scope of the problem, and proposes approaches for managing these risks.
You'll learn how security professionals can work cooperatively with
application developers to reduce risk AND boost developer efficiency.

-----

**Date/Time: July 16, 2014, 6:00 - 8:00 PM EDT**

**Location: Suite 500, 257 Adelaide St. W., Toronto, ON**

Please RSVP at yuk.fai.chan@owasp.org to confirm your presence.

**Speaker:**

Dr. Mark Shtern, CISSP, Postdoctoral Fellow at York University

**Session Outline:**

[DDoS Attacks and Mitigation in Cloud
Environments](https://www.owasp.org/images/1/19/OWASP_Toronto_Jul_2014_DoS_Attack_Mitigation_in_Cloud_Mark_Schtern.pdf)

Distributed Denial of Service (DDoS) attacks are negatively impacting a
broad spectrum of industries as they are increasing in number,
sophistication, and cost. Researchers have noted that, when simple DDoS
attacks fail, the attackers take aim at the application layer and these
attacks become more prevalent. For example, in the first quarter of
2012, Layer 7/Application layer attacks increased by 25% compared to the
year before. In the third quarter of 2013, the total number of layer 7
attacks increased by 101% compared to 2012. As a result, application
layer attacks have been a growing concern for information technology
security specialists.

I will present an adaptive management mechanism, which can correctly
scale applications, mitigate a DDoS attack, or both, based on an
assessment of the business value of workload. I will talk about the
Cloud Efficiency (CE) metric, a runtime metric that assesses how
effectively an application uses software-defined infrastructure. This is
a business-driven metric that can be leveraged to detect various
resource-consumption attacks on applications, including cost-of-service
and low-and-slow DDoS attacks.

-----

**Date/Time: April 23rd, 2014, 5:30 - 7:30 PM EDT**

**Location: Telus Tower, 25 York, 3rd Floor**

Please RSVP to **yuk.fai.chan@owasp.org** to confirm your presence.

**Heartbleed\! or Heart Bleed\!**

[Heartbleed](https://www.owasp.org/images/d/d5/OWASP-Toronto-2014-04-23_Sapiro_Heartbleed.pdf)

Heartbleed\! or Heart Bleed\! The logo, the media coverage, the virus
(no wait, it's not a virus); reverse Heartbleed and client Heartbleed
(the transfusion) - a tale of failure to validate inputs, trusting
user-provided input and coding around good security. You've read the
book\! Seen the movie\! Now see the live puppet show\*. (\*puppets not
included, please bring your own batteries too).

**Speaker: Ben Sapiro**

Ben works for KPMG where he advises people on Cyber Security (we're not
entirely sure what that is yet either but we hear it's the 'new infosec'
which is the 'new orange' which is the 'new black'). He's also the
founder of OpenCERT, a BSidesTO organizer, LiquidMatrix Podcaster,
SECTOR Fail Panelist and occasional writer of things (which sometimes
includes horrible code and bad prose). With 15 years in the biz, Ben's
hoping for parole soon; otherwise is going to have to find something
else to do in infosec/cybersec besides product management, SecSDLC,
consulting, insulting, and CISO'ing. Ben has advised a whole bunch of
confidential clients on AppSec and Secure SDLC, but two he _can_ talk
about (when reliving the glory days) are Sybase and Motorola.

-----

**Date/Time: December 3rd, 2013, 6:00 - 7:30 PM EST**

**Location: Telus Tower, 25 York, 3rd Floor, Room 39**

Please RSVP to **yuk.fai.chan@owasp.org** to confirm your presence.

**OWASP ASVS** [OWASP: Introducing
ASVS 2013](https://www.owasp.org/images/0/0d/Introducing_ASVS_2013.pdf)

Since the last release of the OWASP Application Security Verification
Standard (ASVS) Project in 2009, significant improvements have been
made, including but not limited to:

1\. Content updates to add new relevant content and clarify existing
content

2\. Document segregation

3\. Case studies

4\. Mapping to other relevant standards

In this presentation, we will walk through the major changes that we
believe will increase adoption of the standard in industry.

Presenter: Sahba Kazerooni

Sahba Kazerooni manages Security Compass's internationally renowned
consultants on cutting-edge consulting and training engagements across
North America and around the world. His personal skillset ranges from
hands-on assessments in application penetration testing, threat
modeling, and source code review, to security advisory and technical
training. Sahba has an advanced knowledge of the Software Development
Life Cycle (SDLC) as well as the intricacies of the Java programming
language. He is an internationally renowned speaker on software security
topics, having delivered presentations at reputable security conferences
around the world and having been recognized as an expert in application
security by publications such as IT World Canada and the Information
Security Media Group.

-----

**Date/Time: July 10, 2013, 6:30 - 8:00 PM EST**

**Location: Telus Tower, 25 York, 3rd Floor, Room 39**

Please RSVP to **patrick.szeto@owasp.org** or **yuk.fai.chan@owasp.org**
to confirm your presence.

**OWASP: Beyond the Top 10**

[OWASP: Beyond the
Top 10](https://www.owasp.org/images/b/be/OWASP_-_Beyond_the_Top_10_-_Presentation_-_Distrib_Toronto_Jul_2013.pdf)

Presenter: Andre Rochefort, TELUS

Join us as we take a guided tour through some of OWASPs lesser-known
projects -- present and future. For students and new entrants to the
application security profession, get practical advice on options for
building and honing your skills. Developers and administrators alike
might benefit from an overview of OWASPs projects for secure SDLC,
source code review, and vulnerability assessment and mitigation. The
seasoned professionals can engage in a lively discussion and critique of
OWASP projects in the pipeline, and how the community as a whole is
tackling security for the web, mobile, and beyond. An OWASP session
featuring a buffet of OWASP offerings and a potluck of alternatives and
enhancements.

Your host for this session is Andre Rochefort, an infosec veteran and
lifelong computer geek. As a developer, a security auditor, and a
loudmouth conference heckler, Andre offers a wealth of experience and
anecdotes, with a generous helping of opinion. His day-to-day activities
at TELUS include source code analysis, vulnerability assessments and
penetration tests, with a heavy focus on web and mobile application
security.

-----

**Date/Time: May 8th, 2013, 6:30 - 8:00 PM EST**

**Location: Telus Tower, 25 York, 3rd Floor, Room 39**

Please RSVP to **yuk.fai.chan@owasp.org** to confirm your presence.

**Secure Code Review**

[Security Code
Review](https://www.owasp.org/images/b/b0/SecureCodeReview.pdf)

Presenter: Sherif Koussa

Secure Code Review is the best approach to uncover the largest number
ofsecurity flaws in addition to the most stealth and hard to uncover
security vulnerabilities. During this session, you will learn how to
perform security code review and uncover vulnerabilities such as OWASP
Top 10: Cross-site Scripting, SQL Injection, Access Control and much
more in early stages of development. You will use a real life
application "SecureTickers" pulled from SourceForge. You will get an
introduction to Static Code Analysis tools and how you can extend PMD
(http://pmd.sourceforge.net/), the open source static code analysis
tool, to catch security flaws like OWASP Top 10. Expect lots of code,
tools, hacking and fun\!

-----

**Date/Time: March 20th, 2013, 6:30 - 8:30 PM EST**

**Location: PwC Tower, 18 York Street, Suite 2600, Toronto ON M5J 0B2**

*Due to fire and building regulations, there is a maximum occupancy
allowed in the venue, so if you would like to attend it is very
important that you RSVP at yuk.fai.chan@owasp.org to confirm your
presence\!*

[NFC Threat
Landscape](https://www.owasp.org/images/3/38/NFC_Threat_Landscape_OWASP_Toronto_March_2013.pdf)

Presenter: Geoff Vaughan, Security Compass

Near Field Communication is on pace to be one of the most explosive
technologies in North America for 2013. Over 2012 we’ve seen a number of
industry steps to making this a reality. Nearly all phone makers are
putting NFC into all new phones they develop. Over the last year we have
also seen widespread adoption by a large number of financial
institutions to put NFC into all their new credit cards and banking
cards as well as many mobile payment systems now accepting the
technology. At this point we need to take a step back and evaluate the
implications of having NFC always enabled on a consumer phone and the
implications of storing mobile payment data on an individuals phone. NFC
technologies are intimately embedded into all core features of a smart
phone and this presents a very large attack and vulnerability surface
for an attacker to potentially exploit.

-----

**Wednesday, July 11th 2012, 6:30-8:00 PM EDT** - *Security Community
Engagement*

**Location:
\[<http://maps.google.com/maps?f=q&source=s_q&hl=en&geocode=&q=425+Adelaide+Street+West,+Toronto,+Ontario,+Canada>,
Suite 201, 425 Adelaide Street West, Toronto, ON M5V 3C1\]**

Please RSVP to **yuk.fai.chan@owasp.org** to confirm your presence.

**Description:** Mozilla is one of the most successful open source
projects in existence, and has helped transform the way users and
developers interact with the Internet. In the last few years there has
been many new ways to use the Internet, including new competitors in the
Browser market, mobile and desktop Apps, and a proliferation of
platforms, APIs, and new technologies. Mozilla has a strong base of
contributors to many areas, including Firefox, Thunderbird, our huge
Add-On collection, and our support sites, but not many people know that
Mozilla is also open to community engagement with our Security program
as well\! In this discussion I will explain how our Security program
functions, and how and where we are looking for improved engagement and
contribution from the community, and some of the benefits to
contributing\!

**Speaker Bio:**

Yvan Boily is an Application Security Manager with Mozilla Corporation,
where he manages one of two application security teams focused on the
security of Mozilla web properties and end-user applications.

-----

**Thursday, May 10th 2012, 6:30-8:00 PM EDT** - *[Application Security
ISO](https://www.owasp.org/images/6/64/ISO_27034_review_%28OWASP_Toronto_May_10%2C_2012%29.pdf)*

**Location:
\[<http://maps.google.com/maps?f=q&source=s_q&hl=en&geocode=&q=315+Front+Street+West,+Toronto,+Ontario,+Canada>,
RBC Auditorium C, 315 Front Street West, Toronto, ON M5V 3A4\]**

Please RSVP to **yuk.fai.chan@owasp.org** to confirm your presence.

**Description:** ISO/IEC 27034 - Part 1 was published in November 2011
and the remaining parts (Part 2-6) are expected to be published soon.
What does this mean to your organization or your clients who wish to
adopt or incorporate this ISO standard for their software application?
This overview will walk through the key sections of standard and
highlight the process approach to specifying, designing, developing,
testing, implementing and maintaining security functions and controls in
application systems. We will also attempt to compare these key points
against other industry guidelines to determine the overall intentions
and objectives of the standard.

**Speaker Bio:** TAK CHIJIIIWA, CISSP, CSSLP

Tak Chijiiwa has over 12 years of IT security experience. Tak has been
involved in a wide spectrum of information security strategy and
advisory engagements for various Fortune 500 clients globally in the
healthcare, financial, education, utilities, transportation and
government sector. Prior to joining Security Compass, Tak worked at
Deloitte & Touche, LLP as a Manager of the Vulnerability Management team
in Toronto, Ontario for 6 years and at Kasten Chase Applied Research as
a Development Manager in Mississauga, Ontario for 4 years.

-----

'''Wednesday, September 14th 2011, 6:30-8:00 PM EDT ''' - *Introducing
Vega, a New Open Source Web Vulnerability Scanner*

**Location:
\[<http://maps.google.com/maps?f=q&source=s_q&hl=en&geocode=&q=425+Adelaide+Street+West,+Toronto,+Ontario,+Canada>,
Suite 201, 425 Adelaide Street West, Toronto, ON M5V 3C1\]**

Please RSVP to **owasp-rsvp@securitycompass.com** to confirm you
attendance.

**Description:** David will be presenting Vega, a new free and open
source vulnerability scanner for web applications developed by Subgraph,
his Montreal-based security startup. Vega allows anyone to scan their
web applications for vulnerabilities such as cross-site scripting or SQL
injection. Written in Java, Vega is cross-platform. It's also
extensible, with a built-in Javascript interpreter and API for custom
module development. Vega also includes an intercepting proxy for manual
inspection of possible vulnerabilities and penetration testing.

**Speaker bio:** David has over 10 years in the information security
business. He started his professional experience as a founding member of
Security Focus, which was acquired by Symantec in 2002. David also
moderated the Bugtraq mailing list, a historically important forum for
discussion of security vulnerabilities, for over four years. He has
spoken at Black Hat, Can Sec West, AusCERT and numerous other security
conferences, as well as made contributions to books, magazines and other
publications. David also participated in a NIAC working group on behalf
of Symantec to develop the first version of the CVSS (Common
Vulnerability Scoring System) model and was an editor for IEEE Security
& Privacy. His current obsession is building Subgraph, his information
security startup in Montréal.

-----

'''Wednesday, May 11th 2011, 5:00-6:00 PM ''' - *Mobile Security for the
Forgetful*

**Location:
\[<http://maps.google.com/maps?f=q&source=s_q&hl=en&geocode=&q=315+Front+Street+West,+Toronto,+Ontario,+Canada>,
Auditorium C, 315 Front Street West, Toronto, ON M5V 3A4\]**

Please RSVP to **yukfai at securitycompass dotcom**

**Description:** You’ve accidentally misplaced your company or personal
mobile phone in a public location. In this scenario, what threats do you
and/or your organization face?

This talk will be about the worst case scenario in mobile security: when
the attacker has physical access to the phone. According to DataLossDB,
about 1/5 of all data breaches they have recorded are due to lost or
stolen laptops. Phones are much easier to lose (or steal) then laptops,
and these days the data on our phones can be as confidential as the data
on our laptops.

This talk will go over physical access attacks from an attacker’s
perspective, discuss ways of coding mobile applications to defend
against these kinds of attacks, and discuss some ways of securing our
phones as users. Technical details in this talk will focus on the
Android platform.

Length: 60 minutes

**Speaker Bio:** Max Veytsman is a Security Consultant with Security
Compass. He specializes in web and mobile security assessments. Max also
leads Security Compass' training development in the mobile space. Max
studied Computer Science at the University of Toronto. His interests
include cryptography, programming language design, and computer vision.

-----

**Wednesday, February 16th, 6:00 PM**- *How Auditors Certify Computer
Systems – A Look at Third Party, Non-Vendor, Legally Mandated System
Certifications*

**Location:
\[<http://maps.google.com/maps?f=q&source=s_q&hl=en&geocode=&q=425+adelaide+street+west+toronto&sll=37.0625,-95.677068&sspn=36.915634,52.382813&ie=UTF8&hq=&hnear=425+Adelaide+St+W,+Toronto,+Toronto+Division,+Ontario,+Canada&ll=43.647846,-79.398043&spn=0.008245,0.012789&z=16&iwloc=A>,
425 Adelaide Street West, Suite 702\]**

Please RSVP to **laura at securitycompass dotcom**

**Description:**“Certifications” abound in the world of IT – from
signoffs by internal security professionals to the advertising claims of
vendors, but few, if any of these, have true legal standing. As a
consequence, customers and clients of organizations which process
sensitive transactions or retain confidential data are increasingly
demanding third party, non-vendor, legally mandated system certification
as a pre-requisite to doing business.

• What are these certifications and who can issue them?

• Under what circumstances are certifications likely to be required?

• What standards do certifiers use – and does it matter?

• What information and evidence do auditors need in order to complete
their work?

• How can information systems professionals prepare for a certification
audit and ensure that the process is ultimately successful?

Our speaker, Jerrard Gaertner, CA•CISA/IT, CGEIT, CISSP, CIPP/IT,
I.S.P., ITCP, CIA, CFI, Director of Technology Assurance Services at
Soberman LLP, will address these and related questions based on his 25+
years as a systems auditor.

-----

**Wednesday, November 10th, 6:30 PM**- *Using Open Standards to Break
the Vulnerability Wheel of Pain*

**Location:
\[<http://maps.google.com/maps?f=q&source=s_q&hl=en&geocode=&q=425+adelaide+street+west+toronto&sll=37.0625,-95.677068&sspn=36.915634,52.382813&ie=UTF8&hq=&hnear=425+Adelaide+St+W,+Toronto,+Toronto+Division,+Ontario,+Canada&ll=43.647846,-79.398043&spn=0.008245,0.012789&z=16&iwloc=A>,
425 Adelaide Street West, Suite 702\]**

Please RSVP to **laura at securitycompass dotcom**

**Description:** Ed is the Chief Information Security Officer
responsible for the protection and security of all information and
electronic assets as well as compliance and ethics across the wide array
of business units that make up Orbitz Worldwide on a global basis. These
assets include Orbitz, CheapTickets, eBookers, Away.com, HotelClub,
RatesToGo, AsiaHotels, and Orbitz for Business.

With over 18 years of experience in information security and technology,
Ed has worked with and been involved in protecting information assets at
several Fortune 500 companies. Prior to joining Orbitz, Ed served as VP
of Corporate Information Security for Bank of America within their
Global Corporate and Investment Banking division. His credentials also
include several security technology and management roles at
organizations such as Ernst & Young, Ford Motor Company, and Young &
Rubicam. Ed is a CISSP, CISM, a contributor to the ISM Community, serves
on the advisory board to the Society of Payment Security Professionals
as well as its Application Security Working Group.

Ed is a frequent speaker at information security events across North
America and Europe. Past talks have included venues such as BlackHat,
Metricon, CSO, OWASP, The MIS Institute, The Association of Information
Technology Professionals, Technology Executives Club, and the National
Business Travel Association. Additionally Ed is a contributing author to
the O’Reilly book Beautiful Security.

-----

*' Meetings November 5th, 2009 (THURSDAY)*'

<B>Location:</B>
\[<http://maps.google.com/maps?f=q&source=s_q&hl=en&geocode=&q=285+Victoria+Street,+toronto&sll=37.0625,-95.677068&sspn=42.987658,93.076172&ie=UTF8&z=16&iwloc=A>,
285 Victoria Street, 3rd Floor (Room number VIC306)\] **NEW Location**.

**Date/Time:** : November 5th, 2009, 6:00-7:30 PM EST (THURSDAY)

**Title:** Software Assurance Maturity Model

**Speaker:** Pravir Chandra, Fortify Software

**Description:**Software Assurance Maturity Model (OpenSAMM) The
Software Assurance Maturity Model (SAMM) into a software development
organization. Covering more than typical SDLC-based models for security,
SAMM enables organizations to self-assess their security assurance
program and then use recommended roadmaps to improve in a way that's
aligned to the specific risks facing the organization. Beyond that, SAMM
enables creation of scorecards for an organization's effectiveness at
secure software development throughout the typical governance,
development, and deployment business functions. Scorecards also enable
management within an organization to demonstrate quantitative
improvements through iterations of building a security assurance
program. This workshop will introduce the SAMM framework and walk
through useful activities such as assessing an assurance program,
mapping an existing organization to a recommended roadmap, and
iteratively building an assurance program. Time allowing, additional
case studies will also be discussed. OpenSAMM is an open a free project
and has recently been donated to the Open Web Application Security
Project (OWASP) Foundation. For more information on OpenSAMM, visit
<http://www.opensamm.org/>

'''Bio: ''' Pravir Chandra is Director of Strategic Services at Fortify
Software and works with clients on software security assurance programs.
Pravir is recognized for his expertise in software security, code
analysis, and his ability to strategically apply technical knowledge.
Prior to Fortify, he was a Principal Consultant affiliated with Cigital
and led large software security programs at Fortune 500 companies.
Pravir Co-Founded Secure Software, Inc. and was Chief Security Architect
prior to its acquisition by Fortify. He recently created and led the
Open Software Assurance Maturity Model (OpenSAMM) project with the OWASP
Foundation, leads the OWASP CLASP project, and also serves as member of
the OWASP Global Projects Committee. Pravir is author of the book
Network Security with OpenSSL.

-----

''' Meetings August 19th, 2009 '''

<B>Location:</B>
\[<http://maps.google.com/maps?f=q&source=s_q&hl=en&geocode=&q=285+Victoria+Street,+toronto&sll=37.0625,-95.677068&sspn=42.987658,93.076172&ie=UTF8&z=16&iwloc=A>,
285 Victoria Street, 4th Floor (Room number VIC405)\] **NEW Location**.

**Date/Time:** August 19th, 2009, 6:00-7:30 PM EST

**Title:** Will you be PCI DSS Compliant by September 2010?

**Speaker:** Michael D’Sa, Visa Canada

**Description and Bio:** At this informative session, Michael D'Sa, Visa
Canada's Senior Manager of Data Security and Investigations will talk to
you about PCI DSS compliance within the Canadian marketplace. Michael
will present the emerging data compromise trends, and will review the
Canadian deadlines and mandates for Visa merchants. Michael D’Sa is the
Senior Manager responsible for Data Security and Investigations at Visa
Canada. Working at Visa Canada for over 14 years, Mr. D’Sa is currently
in the Payment System Risk group. His responsibilities include managing
the Account Information Security program, managing Data Compromise
incidents, and supporting Visa banks on fraud investigations. Mr. D’Sa
also acts as the primary liaison for Law Enforcement on Visa related
fraud matters.

-----

''' Meetings May 13th, 2009 '''

<B>Location:</B> [4-179B, 121 King Street West,
Toronto](http://maps.google.com/maps?f=q&hl=en&geocode=&q=121+King+Street+West,+Toronto&sll=43.649973,-79.37798&sspn=0.006785,0.018797&ie=UTF8&ll=43.647908,-79.383473&spn=0.01357,0.037594&z=15&iwloc=addr)
(same as last time)

**Date/Time:** May 13th, 2009, 6:45-8:00 PM EST

**Title:** Cross Site AJAX Hacking

**Description:** The era of AJAX technologies has only been possible
after XMLHttpRequest released its full potential. But XMLHttpRequest has
had a number of security concerns, in particular due to its ability to
create flexible requests against web sites without the users knowledge.
Up to now, the same origin policy limited the impact of this issue.

The Web 2.0 vision calls for the flexible use and rendering of
information in mash-ups created by mixing content from various sources
on the fly. This idea is not easily implemented in Javascript due to
same origin restrictions. In order to allow for these features, XHR
Level 2 and XDR have been developed to remove the same origin policy and
allow the ability to request information from various sites. Current
browsers make these functions available to developers and you will soon
find sites that require them. The presentation will provide information
on the mechanics of these cross site AJAX calls and their security
impact.

As an add-on to the discussion - It has been a year since Johannes
Ullrich have given a talk on Dshield Web App honeypot project. I will
provide a small update on the progress of this project. It's a low key
project but you may be amazed at what we are doing.

**Presenter:** Jason Lam

**BIO:**Jason is a senior security analyst at a major financial
institute in Canada. He is also an author and instructor for SANS
Institute where he writes courses on pentesting and defending web
applications. In his ever diminishing free time, he helps with the SANS
Internet Storm Center as an incident handler. He took on the role to be
a leader for the Dshield honeypot project where logs from web honeypot
all over the world are collected and analyzed.

-----

''' Meetings April 8th 2009 '''

<B> Wednesday April 8th 2009</B>, 6:00-8:00 PM EST at D\&T, 4-179B, 121
King Street West, Toronto.

<B> Topic: </B> A Laugh RIAt – Rich Internet Application Security

<B> Speaker: </B> Rafal M. Los

<B> Description: </B> Rich Internet Applications \[RIA\] are popping up
everywhere\! Enterprises and boutique online shops alike are rushing to
adopt these technologies without really thinking of the implications of
moving pseudo-server functionality to the user’s desktop and browser.
Hacking these applications has now moved from the challenge of
compromising the server, to the significantly smaller challenge of
compromising the client. You’ll be able to witness (and try\!)
first-hand how to manipulate an AJAX-rich web application you or your
colleagues probably use many times; as well as see and understand how
breaking down a Flash binary object (SWF file) isn’t difficult. These
types of applications are now treasure-troves of goodies… don’t miss out
on the simple ways you can security test these technologies on your
desktop today\!

<B> Future Talks: </B> <B> May: </B> Douglas Simpson, Cenzic <B> Jun:
</B> Jamie Gamble, Security Compass <B> Jul: </B> Jason Lam, <B> Aug:
</B> Joe Bates <B> Sep: </B> Tyler Reguly, nCircle

We are looking for speakers, if you are interested in speaking on
security topics please email [Nish
Bhalla](mailto:nish@securitycompass.com)

-----

''' Meetings November 13th 2008 '''

<B>Location:</B> [4-179B, 121 King Street West,
Toronto](http://maps.google.com/maps?f=q&hl=en&geocode=&q=121+King+Street+West,+Toronto&sll=43.649973,-79.37798&sspn=0.006785,0.018797&ie=UTF8&ll=43.647908,-79.383473&spn=0.01357,0.037594&z=15&iwloc=addr)
(same as last time)

**Date/Time:** November 13th 2008, 6:00-7:30 PM EST

**Title:** Web Application Security and the PA-DSS

**Description:** The Payment Card Industry's (PCI) Payment Application
Data Security Standards (PA-DSS) version 1.1 was released in April 2008,
and has implications for every payment application vendor whose product
is sold, distributed, or licensed “as is”. This discussion will provide
a soft introduction to the payment application audit procedures and will
match PA requirements to each phase of the software development
lifecycle. Whether you are a web application developer, tester, vendor
or just interested in PCI and Payment Applications, this talk will have
a message for you.

**Presenter:** A M Westgate M.Sc., B.Ed., CISSP, QSA, PA-QSA

**BIO:** A M brings a range of experience as a security systems analyst,
a software engineer and as an information security instructor. She has
participated in PCI Compliance engagements and PCI gap assessments. In
addition, she has been the primary consultant on PA-DSS Validation, PA
gap assessments and remediation engagements. A M has over 5 years
experience in security software engineering, and has worked in Canada,
USA, Ireland and England. She is a confident speaker, and a part time
instructor of the CISSP preparation course in the continuing education
department at a local university.

-----

''' Meetings August 14th 2008 '''

<B>Location:</B> [4-179B, 121 King Street West,
Toronto](http://maps.google.com/maps?f=q&hl=en&geocode=&q=121+King+Street+West,+Toronto&sll=43.649973,-79.37798&sspn=0.006785,0.018797&ie=UTF8&ll=43.647908,-79.383473&spn=0.01357,0.037594&z=15&iwloc=addr)
(same as last time)

<B>Date/Time:</B> August 14th 2008, 6:00-7:30 PM EST

<B>Title:</B> An Introduction To Reverse Engineering Malware

<B>Session Abstract:</B> This talk will cover the basics of setting up
an environment to reverse engineer malware, and an introduction to some
tools and techniques that can be used to determine what exactly that bit
of unknown, potentially hostile code does. While this is an introductory
talk, we'll definitely cover more than "run strings on the binary and
see what you get\!"

<B>Presenters:</B> Seth Hardy, MessageLabs Inc.

<B>BIO:</B> Seth Hardy recently moved to Toronto to do reverse
engineering work for MessageLabs, as part of their antivirus research
and response group. Before that, he worked mostly in the areas of
vulnerability research and cryptography. In his spare time, Seth likes
to work on community-building projects both online and off. He currently
holds the GIAC GREM certification, and should have the CISSP before this
presentation; if not, feel free to mock him mercilessly for it.

-----

''' Meetings July 16th 2008 '''

<B>Location:</B> [4-179B, 121 King Street West,
Toronto](http://maps.google.com/maps?f=q&hl=en&geocode=&q=121+King+Street+West,+Toronto&sll=43.649973,-79.37798&sspn=0.006785,0.018797&ie=UTF8&ll=43.647908,-79.383473&spn=0.01357,0.037594&z=15&iwloc=addr)
(same as last time)

<B>Date/Time:</B> July 16th 2008, 6:00-7:30 PM EST

<B>Title:</B> Business Logic Flaws

<B>Session Abstract:</B> How they put your Websites at Risk Session
handling, credit card transactions, and password recovery are just a few
examples of Web-enabled business logic processes that malicious hackers
have abused to compromise major websites. These types of vulnerabilities
are routinely overlooked during QA because the process is intended to
test what a piece of code is supposed to do and not what it can be made
to do. The other problem(s) with business logic flaws is scanners can't
identify them, IDS can't detect them, and Web application firewalls
can't defend them. Plus, the more sophisticated and Web 2.0 feature-rich
a website, the more prone it is to have flaws in business logic.The
presentation will provide real-world examples of how pernicious and
dangerous business logic flaws are to the security of a website. We'll
also show how best to spot them and provide organizations with a simple
and rational game plan to prevent them.

<B>Presenters:</B> Trey Ford, Director, Solutions Architecture, WhiteHat
Security, Inc.

<B>BIO:</B> Trey Ford is the Director of Solutions Architecture at
WhiteHat Security, providing strategic guidance to WhiteHat customers
and prospects on their website security programs. Mr. Ford also
spearheads WhiteHat's participation in the PCI Standards Council and
assists customers in selecting WhiteHat services for compliance with the
PCI Data Security Standard. In addition, Mr. Ford is a frequent speaker
at industry events. Prior to WhiteHat, he was the Compliance Practice
Lead at FishNet Security, an information security services provider
based in Kansas City. Mr. Ford also founded and operated, Eclectix, a
technology consultancy. He is a certified information system security
professional (CISSP), a Microsoft Certified Systems Engineer, a Cisco
Certified Networking Associate (CCNA), and a Payment Card Industry
Qualified Data Security Professional.

-----

''' Meetings June 18th 2008 '''

**Location:** The next chapter meeting will be held on June 18th June at
D\&T, 4-179B, 121 King Street West, Toronto.

**Date/Time:** June 18th 2008, 6:00-7:30 PM EST

**Description:** Testing for certain web application vulnerabilities is
tedious and time-consuming, and when combined with time constraints,
full testing coverage is often not achieved. ExploitMe is a series of
Open Source Firefox plugins released by Security Compass for this
purpose - automated detection of XSS, SQL Injection, and access control
(including the recently released HTTP verb tampering) vulnerabilities.

In this presentation Tom Aratyn and Sahba Kazerooni of Security Compass
will demonstrate how the Exploit-Me series of tools can be used during
penetration testing to find security vulnerabilities in real web
applications.

**Presenters:** Tom Aratyn (Developer ExploitMe Series), Sahba Kazerooni
(Security Consultant, Security Compass) [[Link
title](Link_title "wikilink")]([[Link_title "wikilink")

-----

''' May 13th 2008 Meeting '''
The next chapter meeting will be held on May 13th at a <B>Different
Location</B> Delta Meadowvale Resort & Conference Center, 6750
Mississauga Road, Mississauga, ON CA, Phone: 905-821-1981 [Directions to
the
meetings](http://maps.google.com/maps?f=q&hl=en&geocode=&q=6750+Mississauga+Road,+Mississauga&sll=37.0625,-95.677068&sspn=34.724817,82.265625&ie=UTF8&ll=43.602708,-79.742246&spn=0.015507,0.040169&t=h&z=15)

<B>Topic: </B> A Distributed Web Application Honeypot

<B>Date/Time:</B> May 13th 2008, 6:00-7:00 PM EST

<B>Description:</B> DShield.org has been extremely helpful in
understanding network based attacks. However, over the last few years
many interesting attacks target specific web application flaws which are
not detected by DShield's sensor system. Collecting similar data for web
applications has been challenging for a number of reasons. First of all,
the data needed to understand a web application attack is much richer
and a simple efficient data model as the one used by DShield will not
provide sufficient details. If more detailed data, like complete
requests, are collected, data privacy issues become more of a problem.
Simple obfuscation or pattern replacement techniques are usually not
sufficient to safeguard this information, or they will make it
impossible to understand the attack. Lastly, many web application
attacks use search engines to find vulnerable systems, instead of just
attacking random servers. Over the next few months we plan to roll out a
distributed web application honeypot. We will describe how this honeypot
will be implemented to address these issues.

<B>Speaker BIO: Dr. Johannes Ullrich</B> SANS Institute As Chief
Research Officer for the SANS Institute, Johannes is currently
responsible for the SANS Internet Storm Center (ISC) and the GIAC Gold
program. He founded DShield.org in 2000, which is now the data
collection engine behind the ISC. His work with the ISC has been widely
recognized, and in 2004, Network World named him one of the 50 most
powerful people in the networking industry. Prior to working for SANS,
Johannes worked as a lead support engineer for a web development company
and as a research physicist. Johannes holds a Ph.D. in Physics from SUNY
Albany and is located in Jacksonville FL.

OWASP Toronto chapter meetings are open to the public **RSVP** is
requested by sending an [email](mailto:owasp-rsvp@securitycompass.com)

-----

''' 22nd January 2008 Meeting '''

The next chapter meeting will be held on Jan 22nd at <B>20the floor, 79
Wellington Street West, Toronto, ON M5K 1B9 </B>. [Directions to the
meetings](http://maps.google.com/maps?q=79+Wellington+St+W,+Toronto,+ON,+Canada&spn=0.006033,0.020385&t=h&iwloc=A&hl=en)

<B>Topic: </B>Modern Trends in Network Fingerprinting


<B>Description:</B>

<B>Speaker BIO:</B> Jay Graver and Ryan Poppa are Lead Engineers at
nCircle Network Security. They specialize in interrogating Applications
and Services over the network. Their years of experience have been
focused on the non invasive detection of vulnerabilities.

Current Areas of research include; HTTP server analysis, graph theory,
SSL library fingerprinting and unobfuscation techniques.

Based in Toronto Ontario, they hold degrees from University of Guelph
and the University of Waterloo. You can find their latest posts at
blog.glaciertech.ca & numerophobe.com

# Past Presentations For Download

The past presentations are available for download from here. If you have
any comments on the presentations please send them to us.

[Security Monitoring with Azure App Gateway, Log Analytics and Azure
Sentinel](https://www.owasp.org/images/1/1a/Security_Monitoring_with_Azure_App_Gateway%2C_Log_Analytics_and_Azure_Sentinel.pdf)
by Roy Kim, August 2019

[Export to
RCE](https://drive.google.com/open?id=1nR5ZhidViWlDxLtjcshH67bq53h0-4HyyIEuOFdD7k4)
by Adam Greenhill, July 2019

[De-identification](https://drive.google.com/open?id=1t94O1tLXbSujW94UK4EmqtdBtOXEiA7b)
by Erik Service, April 2019
[1](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gI0wk1CXlsQ)[2](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lg-VhHlztqo)[3](http://www.ehealthinformation.ca/wp-content/uploads/2014/08/2009-Tools-for-De-Identification-of-Personal-Health.pdf)[4](http://shop.oreilly.com/product/0636920029229.do)

[In Root we trust (no this is not a DNS
talk)](https://www.owasp.org/images/0/08/OWASP-Toronto-Feb-2019-In_Root_we_Trust.pdf)
by Pavan Chander and Lisa Bui, February 2019

[Back to the Future of Application Security: Developing Secure Smart
Contracts](http://www.srnsec.com/blog/owasp-toronto-jan-2019-presentation-back-to-the-future-of-software-security-developing-secure-smart-contracts)
by Jamie Baxter, January 2019

[Web Application Penetration
Testing](https://www.owasp.org/images/5/5b/OWASP-Toronto-Dec-2018-Web_Application-Penetration-Testing.pdf)
by Frank Coburn and Haris Mahboob, December 2018

[How to stop worrying about Application Container Security
(v2)](https://www.owasp.org/images/6/6d/OWASP_2018_-_How_to_stop_worrying_about_Application_Container_Security_v2_-_Andrzejewski.pdf)
by Brian Andrzejewski, June 2018

[CISO's 90 Day
Plan](https://www.owasp.org/images/6/6d/OWASP_Toronto_-_CISO_90_Day_Plan_-_Nelson_Chen_-_2018-04-28.pdf)
by Nelson Chen, April 2018

[Hi, I am X. How do I get into AppSec /
Security?](https://www.owasp.org/images/7/7a/OWASP_Toronto_January_2018.pdf)
by OWASP Toronto, January 2018

[Swiss cheese security, or the real challenges faced by internet facing
companies](https://www.owasp.org/images/f/f8/Branca_Owasp_Toronto_2017.pdf)
by Enrico Branca, October 2017

[Cloud Security & Best Practice in
AWS](https://www.owasp.org/images/4/4f/OWASP_Toronto_-_Aug_2017_-_Cloud_Security_%26_Best_Practice_in_AWS_by_Ankit_Giri.pdf)
by Ankit Giri, August 2017

[The Node.js Highway: Attacks Are At Full
Throttle](https://www.owasp.org/images/c/c8/OWASP_Toronto_2017-TheNode_jsHighwayAttacksAreAtFullThrottle-Checkmarx.pdf)
by Susan St. Clair, May 2017

[OWASP Overview & Intro to OWASP
Projects](https://www.owasp.org/images/0/08/OWASP_Toronto_March_2017_Intro_%26_Projects.pdf)
by Yuk Fai Chan, March 2017

[Basic Web Application Testing
Methodology](http://www.owasp.org/images/0/06/SecurityCompassPresentation.pdf)
by Nish Bhalla [Security Compass](http://www.securitycompass.com)

[Basic Web Services
Security](http://www.owasp.org/images/5/50/SecurityCompass_Web_Services.pdf)
by Rohit Sethi [Security Compass](http://www.securitycompass.com)

[Authentication
Security](http://www.owasp.org/images/d/d0/Authentication_security.pdf)
by Hui Zhu

[Identity Management
Basics](https://www.owasp.org/images/9/9b/IdM-OWASP.v.0.2.14.pdf) by
Derek Browne

[Business Logic
Flaws](https://www.owasp.org/index.php/Image:2008.07.17.OWASP.ppt.pdf)
by Trey Ford

[A Laugh RIAt – Rich Internet Application
Security](http://www.owasp.org/images/c/c2/ALaughRIAt.pdf) by Rafal M.
Los

[Will you be PCI DSS Compliant by
September 2010?](http://www.owasp.org/images/1/18/MichaelDSa-OWASP_Aug_09.pdf)
by Michael D'Sa

[Mobile Security for the
Forgetful](https://www.owasp.org/images/5/5b/2011_mobile_security_forgetful.pdf)
by Max Veytsman, Security Compass, May 2011

[Application Security
ISO](https://www.owasp.org/images/6/64/ISO_27034_review_%28OWASP_Toronto_May_10%2C_2012%29.pdf)
by Tak Chijiwa, Security Compass, May 2012

[NFC Threat
Landscape](https://www.owasp.org/images/3/38/NFC_Threat_Landscape_OWASP_Toronto_March_2013.pdf)
by Geoff Vaughan, Security Compass, March 2013

[Security Code
Review](https://www.owasp.org/images/b/b0/SecureCodeReview.pdf) by
Sherif Koussa, OWASP Ottawa Chapter Leader, May 2013

[OWASP: Beyond the
Top 10](https://www.owasp.org/images/b/be/OWASP_-_Beyond_the_Top_10_-_Presentation_-_Distrib_Toronto_Jul_2013.pdf)
by Andre Rochefort, TELUS, July 2013

[Heartbleed](https://www.owasp.org/images/d/d5/OWASP-Toronto-2014-04-23_Sapiro_Heartbleed.pdf)
by Ben Sapiro, April 2014

[DDoS Attacks and Mitigation in Cloud
Environments](https://www.owasp.org/images/1/19/OWASP_Toronto_Jul_2014_DoS_Attack_Mitigation_in_Cloud_Mark_Schtern.pdf)
by Mark Shtern, July 2014

[What's Hiding in Your Software Components? Hidden Risks of
Component-Based Software Development – Seeing the Forest Through the
Trees](https://www.owasp.org/images/e/ee/OWASP_TORONTO_SEP_2014_Ryan_Berg.pdf)
by Ryan Berg, Sonatype, September 2014

<headertabs />

[Category:Ontario](Category:Ontario "wikilink")
[Category:Canada](Category:Canada "wikilink")