## The presentation

![Owasp_logo_normal.jpg](Owasp_logo_normal.jpg
"Owasp_logo_normal.jpg")Transparent proxies allow organizations to
influence and monitor the traffic from its users without their knowledge
or participation. Transparent proxies act as intermediaries between a
user and end destination, and aren't generally apparent to users sitting
behind them. Enterprises, Hotels, and Internet Service Providers often
use transparent proxy products to lower bandwidth consumption, speed up
page loads for their users, and for monitoring and filtering of web
surfing. When certain transparent proxy architectures are in use an
attacker can achieve a partial Same Origin Policy Bypass resulting in
access to any host reachable by the proxy via the use of client plug-in
technologies (such as Flash, Applets, etc) with socket capabilities.
This write up will describe this architecture, how it may be abused by
Flash, its existence in various network layouts, and mitigations.

## The speaker

Robert Auger serves as a Information Security Engineer on the secure
development team under PayPal's Information Risk Management group. In
this role, Robert co-develops PayPal's SDLC and security testing
strategies. Robert is also a co-founder and officer of The Web
Application Security Consortium (http://www.webappsec.org/), moderates
The Web Security Mailing List
(http://www.webappsec.org/lists/websecurity/), leads the WASC Threat
Classification Project (http://www.webappsec.org/projects/threat), and
runs CGISecurity, an application security news portal.

[Category:OWASP_AppSec_DC_09](Category:OWASP_AppSec_DC_09 "wikilink")
[Category:OWASP_Conference_Presentations](Category:OWASP_Conference_Presentations "wikilink")