<center>

![<File:Owasptr.png>](Owasptr.png "File:Owasptr.png")

</center>

#### About OWASP/TR

<paypal>Turkey</paypal>

## Chapter Brochure

[Here you can view a
brochure](http://www.webguvenligi.org/docs/WGT_brosur.pdf) explaining in
Turkish the action highlights of OWASP/Türkiye during the last one and a
half year \[obsolete for over two years\].

## Local News

Conference

[Application Security Day, İstanbul 2012](http://www.appsectr.org/) will
be held on 9 June, Saturday, in Marmara Üniversitesi Rektörlük Binası,
Sultanahmet, İstanbul.

Published

[Web App Security Check List 2012 in
Turkish](http://www.webguvenligi.org/dokuman/web-uygulama-guvenligi-kontrol-listesi-2012.html).

## Projects/Tools/Translations

Here are some of the projects produced by OWASP/Türkiye;

  - [DroidAlert](http://code.google.com/p/droidalert/) by Bedirhan Urgun

A proactive approach on finding fake android applications on some of the
biggest android stores. Just enter a term, and droidalert searches it
for you in android stores.

  - [Chiasma](http://code.google.com/p/chiasma/) by Bedirhan Urgun

Instead of having a structured penetration test report (docx, pdf, html
v.b.) from 3rd parties, why not getting them produce a semi-structured
report (xml) that is understood well. Chiasma is a Java desktop
application producing XML vulnerability report.

  - [Web Uygulama Güvenliği Kontrol Listesi 2010- WebAppSec
    Checklist](http://www.webguvenligi.org/docs/web_uygulama_guvenligi_kontrol_listesi_2010.pdf)
    by OWASP-Turkey

A complete set of controls related to security of web applications.

  - [Piknik](http://code.google.com/p/piknik/) by Bedirhan Urgun

A compilation of a study on analyzing the possible behavior of a
malicious developer...Inspired by [Jeff Williams's
Work](http://www.blackhat.com/presentations/bh-usa-09/WILLIAMS/BHUSA09-Williams-EnterpriseJavaRootkits-PAPER.pdf)

  - [FindDomains](http://code.google.com/p/finddomains/) by Mesut Timur

FindDomains is a multithreaded search engine discovery tool that will be
very useful for penetration testers dealing with discovering domain
names/web sites/virtual hosts which are located on too many IP
addresses.

  - [WGT E-Magazine](http://dergi.webguvenligi.org/) by OWASP/TR and
    Onur Yilmaz

An online web security related magazine in Turkish with a 2 months
per-issue period

  - [CTF contest](http://ctf.webguvenligi.org/) by Onur Yilmaz

A CTF contest where researchers, professionals and hackers can show off
their skills in an ethical way

  - [Jarvinen](http://code.google.com/p/jarvinen) by Gökhan Alkan &
    Yusuf Çeri & Bedirhan Urgun

A simple yet effective web based audit log monitoring service for
Modsecurity v2. It consists of two basic parts; a (bash) shell script
that parses serial logs into the mysql database and a php web
application.

  - [CAMMP](http://code.google.com/p/cammp) by Gökhan Alkan

Aims to provide (bash) shell scripts in order to automatize the source
code installations of apache (php and modsecurity) and mysql under
chroot (for RedHat based systems for now).

  - [SecureImage](http://code.google.com/p/secureimage) by Mesut Timur &
    Bedirhan Urgun & Kerem Küsmezer

A Java,PHP and .NET based image validator that can be used for
validating image files on upload systems (such as photo
galleries,forums,etc ..) against the threats for XSS issues with IE and
LFI attacks. Individual project pages;
[PSecureImage](http://code.google.com/p/psecureimage) for PHP,
[JSecureImage](http://code.google.com/p/jsecureimage) for Java and
[NSecureImage](http://www.codeplex.com/owaspturkey/Release/ProjectReleases.aspx?ReleaseId=18008)
for .NET

  - [SecureTomcat](http://code.google.com/p/securetomcat) by Bedirhan
    Urgun & Deniz Çevik & Gökhan Alkan

A collection of three components; an audit documentation in Turkish, a
basic remote vulnerability scanner and an audit shell script fully
aligned with the audit documentation. All for auditing and testing
Apache Tomcat partial J2EE container.

  - [WeBekci](http://code.google.com/p/webekci/) by Bünyamin Demir

WeBekci is a graphical user end for ModSecurity 2.x web application
firewall.

  - [Web Security Turkish Translation
    Project](http://www.webguvenligi.org/?page_id=16) by [great
    volunteers](http://www.webguvenligi.org/?page_id=16) & Bedirhan
    Urgun

Turkish translations of OWASP guides and other web application security
related documents **over 500 pages** and counting

  - [WIVET](http://code.google.com/p/wivet/) by Bedirhan Urgun

A benchmarking project that aims to statistically analyze web link
extractors. It provides a good sum of input vectors to any extractor and
presents the results. Check out the live app
[here](http://www.webguvenligi.org/wivet/).

  - [SqliBench](http://code.google.com/p/sqlibench/) by Mesut Timur &
    Bedirhan Urgun

SQLiBENCH is a benchmarking project of automatic sql injectors related
to dumping databases. Check out the live app
[here](http://www.webguvenligi.org/sqlibench/web/). The project is
sponsored by [OWASP
SoC 08](http://www.owasp.org/index.php/Category:OWASP_Sqlibench_Project).

  - [MSALParser](http://code.google.com/p/msalparser) by Bedirhan Urgun

MSALParser (pronounced \\mi-säl\\) implements necessary parsers and
model objects to represent a ModSecurity Single Audit Log, hence the
name MSAL. MSALParser is a PHP RPC end that will get mlogc's calls and
parses them into objects and eventually write to a persistent data
store.

  - [ApacheLive](http://code.google.com/p/apachelive) by Bedirhan Urgun

ApacheLive (aka Haydar) project consists of a python script which was
aimed to stress Apache web servers (httpd) using Keep-Alive parameters.

  - [AntiCsurf](http://code.google.com/p/anticsurf) by Mesut Timur

For most of the languages and frameworks, developers have to implement
their own functions to defend against CSRF. AntiCsrf is a basic and
light library for defending against CSRF for PHP applications.

  - [FM-FSF](http://code.google.com/p/fm-fsf) by Ferruh Mavituna

FSF is a plug-in based freakin' simple fuzzer for fuzzing web
applications and scraping data. It supports some basic stuff and missing
some features however it has got some advanced RegEx capturing features
for scraping data out of web applications.

  - [MSALMobile](http://code.google.com/p/msalmobile) &
    [MSALService](http://code.google.com/p/msalservice) by Bedirhan
    Urgun

MSALMobile, a basic windows mobile application and consuming
MSALService, is a simple mobile ModSecurity log analyzer for Windows
Mobile environment. See [a video of MSALMobile in
action](http://www.webguvenligi.org/software/msalmobile/msalmobile_video.rar)
on www.webguvenligi.org.

  - [XSS TestBed](http://www.webguvenligi.org/xsstb/reflected.php) by
    Bedirhan Urgun

A playground for reflected xss test cases. The live project includes
seven test cases ready to exploit. A legal and solid way to learn and
apply xss skills. Moreover, a good way to test web application scanners
on reflected xss testing...

  - [Web.config Security
    Analyzer](http://www.webguvenligi.org/projeler/wcsa) by Mesut Timur

Web.config file holds settings about related ASP.NET web application.
This project analyzes a given Web.config file for security
vulnerabilities with its 30+ checks. It's a command line too for now and
produces a neat html based report.

## Translations

Çeviri projesine yardım etmek isteyen arkadaşlar, lütfen
[bunyamin](mailto:bunyamindemir@gmail.com) veya
[bedirhan](mailto:urgunb@hotmail.com) *(proje lideri)* ile iletişime
geçiniz. Şu ana kadar yayınlanan çevirilere
[buradan](http://www.webguvenligi.org/?page_id=16) ulaşabilirsiniz. *You
can find Turkish translations of OWASP and other web security related
documents [here](http://www.webguvenligi.org/?page_id=16).*

#### Meetings/Conferences

## Chapter Meeting, İstanbul, 27th Dec 2016

[Chapter Meeting,
İstanbul 2016](http://www.webguvenligi.org/haberler/bulusma-27-aralik-2016.html)

## Application Security Day, İstanbul 2016, Conference

[Application Security Day,
İstanbul 2016](http://www.webguvenligi.org/haberler/uygulama-guvenligi-gunu-2016.html)

## Application Security Day, Eskişehir 2015, Conference

Slides to download: [Application Security Day,
Eskişehir 2015](http://www.appsectr.org/?page_id=53)

## Chapter Meeting, İstanbul, 26th May 2014

## Attendance at Cyber Security Conference, İstanbul, 13 May 2014

[Cyber Security
Conference 2014](http://www.siberguvenlikkonferansi.org/p/sponsorlar.html)

## Application Security Day, İstanbul 2013, Conference

[Application Security Day, İstanbul 2013](http://www.appsectr.org/2013/)

## Application Security Day, İstanbul 2012, Conference

[Application Security Day, İstanbul 2012](http://www.appsectr.org/) will
be held on 9 June, Saturday, in Marmara Üniversitesi Rektörlük Binası,
Sultanahmet, İstanbul. The event aims to present an environment where
key and popular application security topics will be discussed and
shared. Hundreds of developers, business owners and security
practitioners will be ready to increase local application security
awareness. Join us\!

## OWASP/TR Presentation in Android Developer Days 2012 in ODTU Ankara

Bedirhan Urgun of OWASP/TR will give a presentation on "Developing
Secure Android Days" on 22 May from 15:30-16:00 in Android Developer
Days, 2012. The presentation will take place in ODTU, Ankara.

Location: ODTÜ Kültür ve Kongre Merkezi, Ankara

Date: 22 May 2012, Tuesday

Time: 15:30 – 16:00

## OWASP/TR Presentation in ReadMee Internet Zirvesi, 2012

Seyfullah Kılıç will give a presentation titled "Web Güvenliği ve
Korunma Yolları" on 07 April Saturday from 14:00-14:45 in ReadMee
Internet Zirvesi, 2012. The presentation will take place in Eskişehir
Osmangazi Üniversitesi, Eskişehir.

Location: Eskişehir Osmangazi Üniversitesi Meşelik Kampüsü, Eskişehir

Date: 7 April 2012 Saturday

Time: 14:00 – 14:45

## OWASP/TR Presentation in Özgür Yazılım ve Linux Günleri, 2012

Bünyamin Demir of OWASP/TR will give a presentation titled as " Güvenli
Kod Geliştirme" and will hold a chapter meeting "OWASP Türkiye Chapter
Meeting (Çalışma Toplantısı)" on 31 March Saturday from 10:00-13:00 in
Özgür Yazılım ve Linux Günleri, 2012. The presentations will take place
in İstanbul Bilgi Üniversitesi Dolapdere Kampüsü, İstanbul.

Location: İstanbul Bilgi Üniversitesi Dolapdere Kampüsü, İstanbul

Date: 31 March 2012 Saturday

Time: 10:00 – 13:00

Location 1: 1. Salon Location 2: Toplantı Salonu

## OWASP/TR Talk in Open Source Code Days in Yeditepe University

Bunyamin Demir talked about OWASP and OWASP/Turkey introduction. After
intro, he did a presentation about ["Secure Coding and Chaotic Life
Cycle"](http://seminer.linux.org.tr/wp-content/uploads/guvenli_kod_gelistirme_ve_yasam_dongusu.ppt).

Location: Yeditepe University, 26 Agustos Yerlesimi, Salon 2

Date: 14 October 2011, Friday

Time: 15:00 – 15:45

## OWASP/TR Introductory Meetings and Seminar @ Bahçeşehir Üniversitesi, March 2010

[Kubilay Onur Güngör](http://www.shibumidojo.org/) will start with OWASP
and OWASP/Turkey introduction. After intro, cyber security concept, web
application security, social theories of criminal behaviors and many
other topics will be discussed. So don't miss the events if you're
around.

Location: Bahçeşehir Üniversitesi, Beşiktaş Kampüsü, D-404 Salonu

Date: 10 Mart 2010 Çarşamba

Time: 18.30 – 19.30

## OWASP/TR Introductory Meetings and Seminar @ Işık Üniversitesi, March 2010

[Kubilay Onur Güngör](http://www.shibumidojo.org/) will start with OWASP
and OWASP/Turkey introduction. After intro, cyber security concept, web
application security, social theories of criminal behaviors and many
other topics will be discussed. So don't miss the events if you're
around.

Location: Işık Üniversitesi, Şile Kampüsü Registration:
<http://bilisimgunleri.isikun.edu.tr> Date: 8 Mart 2010 Pazartesi Time:
15.00 - 16.00

## OWASP/TR Meeting in Turkcell Akademi with OISF Team, February 2010

With 7 [OISF](http://www.openinfosecfoundation.org) members we had our
23 February meeting. Brian [talked about
ModSecurity](http://vimeo.com/9825055) and Victor & Will [talked about
Suricata](http://vimeo.com/9825622).

As always, check out the photos on
[flickr-webguvenligi](http://www.flickr.com/photos/webguvenligi)\!\!

Thanks to our sponsor for this meeting
[GuvenlikEgitimleri.Com](http://www.guvenlikegitimleri.com)

## OWASP/TR Seminar in İstanbul Kültür Universitesi, 29 December 2009

We'll be hosting a free seminar in İstanbul Kültür Üniversitesi, Ataköy
Kampüsü, Önder Öztunalı Konferans Salonu. Topics will include
"introduction to OWASP/TR", "siber security", "security best practices
and standards". It will also include a demo on digital investigation.

Presenter: [Kubilay Onur Güngör](http://www.shibumidojo.org/)

Date: Tuesday, December 29, 2009

Time: 12:00pm - 1:30pm

Location: İstanbul Kültür Üniersitesi, Ataköy Kampüsü, Önder Öztunalı
Konferans Salonu

## October 11, 2009 OWASP/TR on the Green Field

Teams formed by OWASP-Turkey mailing list members will play a soccer
match on Sunday, 18:00 October the 11th. We'll seek our Messis, Zidanes,
Kakas, Lampards, Chechs stemmed from the Anatolian land... National team
may not be qualified for the 2010 World Championship, which is a shame,
but we'll do better next time.

## Artifacts - OWASP-Turkey Meeting in September 26, 2009

30 people gathered for the OWASP/TR meeting. Here's the [agenda of the
meeting](http://www.webguvenligi.org/docs/26_Eylul_OWASPTR_Bulusma.ppt).
Moreover, Ibrahim Saruhan gave a
[presentation](http://www.webguvenligi.org/docs/Facebook_Twitter_Botnets.ppt)
on his experiences writing a PoC Facebook botnet. Thanks everyone for
participating.

See the [pictures](http://www.flickr.com/webguvenligi/) and listen to
the DimDim
[recording](http://recp.dimdim.com/view/dimdim/1a9400f2-fbdb-102c-9515-003048642bd7).

## September 26 Meeting

A regular meeting for anyone interested in web/software security. It
will take place in Istanbul, Taksim at 14:00, on 26 September.

## Artifacts - 06 May/13 May 2009 OWASP-TR Talks in Kocaeli & Gazi Universities

Here are the presentations given by Bünyamin Demir and Onur Yılmaz at
"Information Techonology Days" in [Kocaeli
University](http://www.kocaeli.edu.tr/) and [Gazi
University](http://www.gazi.edu.tr/), [OWASP-TR & WebGoat
Presentation](http://www.webguvenligi.org/docs/kocaeli09owasptr.ppt) and
[Basic Web App Security
Presentation](http://www.webguvenligi.org/docs/gaziuni09owasptr.ppt)
respectively.

Pictures are on [flicker](http://www.flickr.com/photos/webguvenligi) as
always.

## Web Application Security Talk in Gazi University, 13 May 2009

We'll be giving a talk in "Information Days" event at Gazi University
about code/sql injection attack vectors and prevention techniques on
13th (Wednesday) of May 2009, between 10:30-11:20.

Reach out the details
[here](http://www.webguvenligi.org/haberler/web-uygulamalari-guvenligi-sunumu-gazi-universitesi.html)

## OWASP-TR Seminar in Kocaeli University, 06 May 2009

We'll be hosting a free seminar in Math. Department of Kocaeli
University about OWASP and OWASP/Turkey including the basics of well
known attack vectors and prevention techniques on 6th (Wednesday) of May
2009, starting from 15:30.

Reach out the details
[here](http://www.webguvenligi.org/haberler/owasp-tr-ve-wgt-semineri-kocaeli-universitesi.html)

## Artifacts - March 19 2009 OWASP-TR Talk in Sakarya University

Here are the presentations given by Bünyamin Demir and Gökhan Alkan at
"Information Techonology Days" in [Sakarya
University](http://www.sau.edu.tr/), [OWASP-TR & WebGoat
Presentation](http://www.webguvenligi.org/sau_bilisim_gunleri09/sakarya_bilisim_gunleri.ppt)
and [Jarvinen
Presentation](http://www.webguvenligi.org/sau_bilisim_gunleri09/Recel_Krallagindan_Webe.ppt)
respectively. We'd like to thank [Sakarya Universitesi Bilişim
Kulubü](http://www.bilisimk.sau.edu.tr/) for inviting us.

And never the least, here are the
[pictures](http://www.flickr.com/photos/webguvenligi) taken during the
day.

## Talk in Information Techonology Days '09 in Sakarya University

We'll be giving two talks in "Information Techonology Days" about OWASP
and OWASP/Turkey in [Sakarya University](http://www.sau.edu.tr/) on 19th
of March 2009. The talk will include an introduction to OWASP,
OWASP/Turkey as a community. Plus, Jarvinen, an OWASP/TR project, will
be presented.

## Artifacts - Fifth OWASP-Turkey Meeting in March 08, 2009

We had close to 35 people gathered. Here's the [agenda of the
meeting](http://www.webguvenligi.org/docs/WGT_OWASP-TR_08_Mart_2009_Bulusmasi_Ajanda.pptx).
Moreover, Fatih Emiral gave a
[presentation](http://www.webguvenligi.org/docs/Yazilim_Guvenligi.ppt)
comparing three main Software Security models. Thanks everyone for
participating.

For the photos take a look at
[here](http://www.flickr.com/photos/webguvenligi/).

## Fifth OWASP-Turkey Meeting in March 08, 2009

A regular meeting on web/software security related
issues\&techniques\&news. The meeting will take place in Istanbul,
Maltepe, beween 13:00-15:00, on 08th of March, Sunday. Here's the map
for the [meeting
place](http://www.gencgirisimciler.org/bpi.asp?caid=161&cid=17) If you
want to attend the event, please send an e-mail to: urgunb at
hotmail.com (Bedirhan Urgun)

## Artifacts - Web Security Days Kocaeli December 2008

With over 50 attendees we had our 4th Web Security Days in Kocaeli
University at Umuttepe Campus.

Presentations & SlideShows & Photos:

  - [Giris](http://www.webguvenligi.org/docs/kocaeli/wgg4_intro.ppt) -
    Bedirhan Urgun
  - [WGT/OWASPTR](http://www.webguvenligi.org/docs/kocaeli/wgg4_owasptr_wgt.ppt)
    - Bünyamin Demir
  - [WWW
    Introduction](http://www.webguvenligi.org/docs/kocaeli/wgg4_www.ppt)
    - Uğur Yıldız
  - [CSRF](http://www.webguvenligi.org/docs/kocaeli/wgg4_csrf.ppt) -
    Yusuf Çeri
  - [Graphic
    Attacks](http://www.webguvenligi.org/docs/kocaeli/wgg4_graphics.ppt)
    - Mesut Timur
  - [Secure Web Production
    Environments](http://www.webguvenligi.org/docs/kocaeli/wgg4_chroot.ppt)
    - Gökhan Alkan
  - [Pictures](http://www.flickr.com/webguvenligi/) - Bedirhan &
    Bünyamin
  - [OWASP Top 10 Slide
    Show](http://www.webguvenligi.org/docs/kocaeli/wgg4_slideshow.ppt) -
    Bedirhan Urgun

## Next Event - 4th Web Security Days Kocaeli - December 23 (Turkey 2008)

This event will be the fourth of "Web Security Days" and will take place
on 23rd of December 2008 in Kocaeli. The agenda of the event is
[here](http://www.owasp.org/index.php/4th_Web_Security_Days_OWASP_Turkey).

## Artifacts - Fourth OWASP-Turkey Meeting in October 18, 2008

Here's the [agenda of the
meeting](http://www.webguvenligi.org/wp-content/uploads/2008/10/WGT&OWASP-TR_18_Ekim_2008_Bulusmasi_Ajanda.ppt).
We also had two small discussion and presentation of a simple demo
overview of recent clickjacking vulnerability and [sqlibench SoC 2008
OWASP
project](http://www.webguvenligi.org/wp-content/uploads/2008/10/sqlibench-presentation.ppt).
Thanks everyone for participating.

Moreover, all of the OWASP sent books (\~30)/pens(\~15) were distributed
freely\!

For the photos take a look at
[here](http://www.flickr.com/photos/webguvenligi/).

## Fourth OWASP-Turkey Meeting in October 18, 2008

A catch up meeting on web/software security related
issues\&techniques\&news. Moreover, OWASP sent goodies (to the most
active chapters) will be distributed (This includes 27 OWASP books and
19 pens). It will take place in Istanbul, İstiklal Cad.Emir Nevruz Sok.
No: 1/11 Galatasaray Beyoğlu beween 14:00-16:00, on 18th of October. If
you want to attend the event, please send an e-mail to: urgunb at
hotmail.com (Bedirhan Urgun)

## Artifacts - June 21 2008 OWASP-TR Talk in "Free Software Conference"

Here is the presentation given by Mesut Timur and keynote submitted at
["Free Software Conference"](http://konferans.linux.org.tr/) in [TOBB
University of Economics and Technology](http://www.etu.edu.tr/);
[OWASP-TR
Presentation](http://www.webguvenligi.org/wp-content/uploads/2008/06/owasp_wgt_lkd_21062008.ppt)
and [Web Security and Free Software
Keynote](http://www.webguvenligi.org/wp-content/uploads/2008/06/webguvenligi_bildiri_lkd_21062008.pdf)
(in Turkish) respectively.

## Talk in Free Software Conference in Ankara

We'll be giving a talk in "Free Software Conference" about OWASP and
OWASP/Turkey in [TOBB University of Economics and
Technology](http://www.etu.edu.tr/) on 21st (Saturday) of June 2008. The
talk will include an introduction to OWASP, OWASP/Turkey, as well as
web/application security projects achieved in Turkey.

The Day will start at 09:30 and our talk, which will be presented by
[Mesut Timur](http://www.h-labs.org), will be between 15.00-15.30. You
can skim the programme
[here](http://konferans.linux.org.tr/etkinlik-programi/).

## Artifacts - April 19 2008 OWASP-TR Talk in Yildiz Technical University

Here are the presentations given by Bünyamin Demir and Yusuf Çeri at
"Open Source Code Day" in [Yildiz Technical
University](http://www.yildiz.edu.tr/english), [OWASP-TR
Presentation](http://www.webguvenligi.org/wp-content/uploads/2008/04/owasp-wgt-ytu-19nisan08.ppt)
and [SqlDemo
Presentation](http://www.webguvenligi.org/wp-content/uploads/2008/04/sqlmapdemo-wgt-ytu-19nisan08.ppt)
respectively. We'd like to thank YTÜ Bilişim Kulubü for inviting us.

And never the least, here are the
[pictures](http://www.flickr.com/photos/webguvenligi/sets/72157604620396950/)
taken during the day.

## Talk in Open Source Code Day in Yildiz Technical University

We'll be giving a talk in "Open Source Code Day" about OWASP and
OWASP/Turkey in [Yildiz Technical
University](http://www.yildiz.edu.tr/english) on 19th of April 2008. The
talk will include an introduction to OWASP, OWASP/Turkey,
web/application security community in Turkey, the 1st OWASP Day video by
Jeff and a live application insecurity demo.

The Day will start at 09:30 and our talk will be the last one before the
noon.

## Artifacts - March 09 2008 Meeting

It was a nice Sunday in Istanbul and we had 16 people talking about SPoC
08, April OWASP Week and web application security in general. Here are
the
[pictures](http://www.flickr.com/photos/webguvenligi/sets/72157604077351886/)
taken during the meeting.

## March 09 Meeting

A casual meeting for anyone interested in web/software security. It will
take place in Istanbul, Kadikoy at 14:30, on 09 March. To chat and enjoy
the [Bosphorus](http://www.flickr.com/photos/jrogivue/21918611/)\!

## Artifacts - Web Security Days Ankara & İzmir November 2007

Through a foggy, and therefore a hard flight, we've managed to realize
Web Security Days 2 & 3 in Ankara and Izmir, respectively. Having a
total of \~130 attendees (most of them in Izmir), we hope WSD to be
traditional and become more qualitysome.

Presentations & Code & Photos:

  - [Giris](http://www.webguvenligi.org/docs/ankara/init_ankara.ppt) -
    Bedirhan Urgun
  - [WGT Giris](http://www.webguvenligi.org/docs/ankara/wgt.ppt) -
    Bünyamin Demir
  - [ULAK-CSIRT
    Giris](http://www.webguvenligi.org/docs/izmir/ulakcsirt.pdf) - Enis
    Karaarslan
  - [Yazılım Geliştirme Sürecinde Güvenlik
    Testleri](http://www.webguvenligi.org/docs/ankara/burak_sc.ppt) -
    Burak Dayıoğlu
  - [Kurumsal Web Güvenliği
    Yapısı](http://www.webguvenligi.org/docs/izmir/enis_web.ppt) -
    Enis Karaarslan
  - [Uygulamalarda Katmanlı Güvenlik
    Anlayışı](http://www.webguvenligi.org/docs/izmir/tahsin_did.ppt)
    - Tahsin Türköz
  - [PHP ve Güvenli
    Kodlama](http://www.webguvenligi.org/docs/izmir/oguzhan_php.ppt) -
    Oğuzhan Yalçın
  - [Perl'de Guvenlik
    Modulu](http://www.webguvenligi.org/docs/ankara/bunyamin_pl.ppt) -
    Bünyamin Demir
  - [Perl'de Guvenlik Modulu -
    Kod](http://www.webguvenligi.org/docs/izmir/security_pm.rar) -
    Bünyamin Demir
  - [Web 2.0 Savunma Dili:
    Javascript](http://www.webguvenligi.org/docs/ankara/bedirhan_js.ppt)
    - Bedirhan Urgun
  - [Photos](http://www.flickr.com/photos/webguvenligi/sets/72157603311164597/)
    - Bedirhan & Bünyamin

## Next Event - 3rd Web Security Days İzmir - November 26 (Turkey 2007)

This event will be the third of "Web Security Days" and will take place
on 26th of November 2007 in İzmir. The agenda of the event is
[here](https://www.owasp.org/index.php/3rd_Web_Security_Days_OWASP_Turkey).

## Next Event - 2nd Web Security Days Ankara - November 24 (Turkey 2007)

This event will be the second of "Web Security Days" and will take place
on 24th of November 2007 in Ankara. The agenda of the event is
[here](https://www.owasp.org/index.php/2nd_Web_Security_Days_OWASP_Turkey).

## Artifacts - OWASP DAY: on the topic of "Privacy in the 21st Century" - September 8 (Turkey 2007)

Presentations:

  - [Turkish
    Subtitle](https://www.owasp.org/images/6/66/OWASP_DAY_TR.sub.ppt)
    for [Jeff's OWASP Day Intro
    movie](http://www.owasp.org/downloads/OWASP_Day.wmv) (delete .ppt
    extension)
  - [OWASP2007_KamudaPrivacy.ppt‎](https://www.owasp.org/images/b/bc/OWASP2007_KamudaPrivacy.ppt)
  - [Guvenli_Web_Uygulamalarinin_Gelistirilmesi.ppt](https://www.owasp.org/images/4/4b/Guvenli_Web_Uygulamalarinin_Gelistirilmesi2.ppt)

Discussion Answers:

Q1. What is the current state of Privacy on Web Application Security?
Does it really matter? Is privacy what will drive radical changes in web
application's security (ala PCI)?

A1. During the meeting an effort was made to clarify the meaning of
privacy;

`- what are the key items that builds up to "privacy"?`
`- are we talking about the privacy of real people or should we also include the privacy of legal entities?`
`- is there really a solid line (or even a vague line) between confidentiality and privacy?`

We defined privacy as confidentiality of the data; be it of a real
person or a legal entity. But the key part is that privacy is "the
ability to control the flow of one's own data". And which brings another
principle: "need to know". Privacy is directly related to an individual
or an organization. Confidentiality, however, is directly related to
"information"... Privacy is a "result" and confidentiality is a tenet or
a security mechanism.

Enough of these convulsions; The answer to the first question was a
definite "YES". Participants were all agreed that "privacy" plays and
will play the most important role in web security and its future.

Q2. Application side: what the data owner should be doing to protect the
user's privacy? Should there be a law that states how to protect this
information? What can we do to improve it?

A2. Most of the participants agreed that a law is a necessity. But,
maybe, more important thing is to raise the awareness of the customers.
Here we also had a discussion on the current status of the law on
privacy? There are mainly three documents on privacy in Turkish law;

`* a directive on privacy in telecommunication, which happened to be inadequate (an assertion of a lawyer)`
`* a draft law on privacy from Department of Justice, which is still in the process of approval`
`* a recent (May 2007) law on siber crimes which happens to be similiar to the "Directive 2006/24/EC of the `
`  European Parliament and of the Council" on the data retention. This law, however, still needs a few`
`  directives, which are about to be published.`

Q3. Client side: what is the client's perception of privacy? How can a
user trust a site about his own data treatment? Is the client nowadays
safeguarded about a possible loss of privacy?

A3. As a first step there should be an "agreement" presented to the user
by the application side. This wouldn't be enough so there should be
regular inspections (a third eye) on these services. About "is the
client nowadays safeguarded about a possible loss of privacy?" question,
the answer was a definite "NO". Especially with the banks. Yes, there
are a few cases of trials where the courts dictated a bank to compansate
the loss of the victim, however, mostly this is not the case. Even there
is a domain serving, founded by the victims of online banking crimes in
Turkey.

Q4. What should OWASP be focusing on?

A4. As a suggestion, OWASP may provide a "web security tips" page, which
can include a searchable gui on small programming tips to avoid security
holes in web applications.

And a great idea of producing a "FixmeBank" application to cover the
developer side of the story, as opposed to tester/attacker side (via
WebGoat or HacmeBank), was suggested by Taygun Alban.

Q5. What would OWASP spend it's grant money? (note that new OWASP
members can allocate some or all of their membership fees to specific
projects)

A5. Some suggestions; . Printed booklets of Guide and Testing Guide. .
OWASP CD with shiny labels . I'm afraid to say but... t-shirts

Q6. Should OWASP organize such 'OWASP Weeks' every quarter?

A6. OWASP should organize these events every 6 months or so :)

## Next Event - OWASP DAY: on the topic of "Privacy in the 21st Century" - September 8 (Turkey 2007)

As a part of the Global Security Week, OWASP Turkey chapter will be
holding a humble meeting on Saturday, 8 September 2007. Less technical
and time taking compared to last event ([Web Security
Days](http://www.owasp.org/index.php/1st_Web_Security_Days_OWASP_Turkey))
we will be focusing on the current snapshot of the privacy related
issues in the govermental/quasi-governmental and private institutions of
Turkey.

Here's the "still in process" agenda:

  - 14:00 - 14:10 Prelude. Introduction of OWASP DAY and OWASP Turkey
    projects

A small introduction to OWASP Day meeting and its goals, plus
explanation of some of the lightweight projects of OWASP Turkey.

Bedirhan URGUN, Bunyamin DEMİR

  - 14:20 - 14:50 Privacy in Governmental Insitutions - A Current State
    Analysis

Presentation will discuss the understanding of the privacy concept
settled in governmental institutions and deliberate on general
information security problems related with privacy issues.

Getting off with general privacy problems, in specific, information
about the privacy issues related to web applications will be given.
Moreover, concrete suggestions on providing a solid privacy in these
institutions will be presented.

Hayrettin BAHŞİ Chief Researcher CC Lab-UEKAE TUBITAK

  - 15:00 - 15:50 Secure Web Application Development

Korhan GÜRLER Chief Researcher PRO-G

  - 15:00 - 16:00 A Panel on Privacy in Turkey

OWASP-Turkey Members

## Last Event - 1st Web Security Days - July 14 (Turkey 2007)

First of the [Web Security
Days](http://www.owasp.org/index.php/1st_Web_Security_Days_OWASP_Turkey)
has been realized by Owasp-Turkey chapter on 14th of July 2007 in
İstanbul. With a \~70 registered attendees, it was great to have a pack
of web security oriented people for a five hours of mostly technical
presentations.

[For
details...](http://www.owasp.org/index.php/1st_Web_Security_Days_OWASP_Turkey)

## Last Meetings

**Sunday 6 May 2007**
**Time:** 11:15-12:30
**Address** to the meeting are:

[Middle East Technical University](http://www.metu.edu.tr)
Ankara-Turkey

**Presentation**

`    Web Application Security with ModSecurity and OWASP`

__NOTOC__

<headertabs/>

[Category:Turkey](Category:Turkey "wikilink")
[Category:Europe](Category:Europe "wikilink")