**Title: Application Security Scoreboard in the Sky**

**Abstract**: This presentation will discuss vulnerability metrics
gathered from real-world applications. The statistics are derived from
continuously updated data collected by Veracodeâ€™s cloud-based code
analysis service. The anonymized data represents a total of nearly 1,600
applications submitted for analysis by large and small companies,
commercial software providers, open source projects, and software
outsourcers between February 2007 and January 2010. This is the first
vulnerability analytics study of this magnitude that incorporates data
from both static analysis and dynamic analysis.
We will compare the relative security of applications by industry and
origin, and we will examine detailed vulnerability distribution data in
the context of taxonomies such as the OWASP Top Ten and the CWE/SANS Top
25 Programming Errors.

**Speaker Bio**: Tyler Shields is a Senior Researcher for the Veracode
Research Lab whose responsibilities include understanding and examining
interesting and relevant security and attack methods for integration
into the Veracode product offerings. In the past, Tyler has worked as a
consultant for both @Stake and Symantec, delivering security assessments
to fortune 500 companies, major financial institutions, institutions of
higher education, and the highest levels of the U.S. government. Tyler
has presented at major industry conferences including H.O.P.E ,
Shmoocon, and SOURCE Boston and released numerous security advisories.
He also frequently contributes to major media outlets as a security
subject matter expert.
[Back](OWASP_IRELAND_2010 "wikilink")