## The presentation

![Owasp_logo_normal.jpg](Owasp_logo_normal.jpg
"Owasp_logo_normal.jpg")Cloud Computing paradigms spell fundamental
changes for where your applications run, the platforms on which they
run, who controls these platforms and the boundaries corporate data
crosses. The speaker will address the distinct security challenges posed
by each of the three Cloud Computing models: Infrastructure as a Service
(IaaS), where hosted servers, software and network equipment are
deployed in the cloud; Platforms as a Service (PaaS), where the
organization develops its own applications, but does so within the
provider's framework or specified platform; and Software as a Service
(SaaS), where the organization trusts its application to both the
provider's hardware and software. What steps should you take in each
case to protect your data? Companies that choose not to use the Cloud
model at all run a different risk-- rogue departments doing it anyway.
What is a logical, predictable, and mature approach to adopting Cloud
Computing?

## The speaker

Dennis Hurst is a Senior Security Engineer for HP Software, and heads a
team of web application security experts. Prior to HP, Dennis was a
Developer Security Evangelist for S.P.I. Dynamics, Inc., acquired by HP
in August 2007. Dennis is an expert in system design, implementation and
maintenance of complex multi-vendor, multi-platform computer
applications and networks. He was the lead developer of SPI Dynamics’
flagship web application vulnerability assessment product, WebInspect™,
and now works with other development organizations evangelizing the need
to integrate security into the Software Development Lifecycle (SDLC).
Dennis is a founding member of the Cloud Security Alliance, and recently
co-wrote the application security section of the “Security Guidance for
Critical Areas of Focus in Cloud Computing.”

[Category:OWASP_AppSec_DC_09](Category:OWASP_AppSec_DC_09 "wikilink")
[Category:OWASP_Conference_Presentations](Category:OWASP_Conference_Presentations "wikilink")