![468x60-banner-2010.gif](468x60-banner-2010.gif
"468x60-banner-2010.gif")

[Registration](https://guest.cvent.com/EVENTS/Register/IdentityConfirmation.aspx?e=d52c6f5f-d568-4e16-b8e0-b5e2bf87ab3a)
|
[Hotel](https://resweb.passkey.com/Resweb.do?mode=welcome_gi_new&groupID=2766908)
| [Walter E. Washington Convention
Center](http://www.dcconvention.com/)
\== The presentation ==

![Owasp_logo_normal.jpg](Owasp_logo_normal.jpg
"Owasp_logo_normal.jpg")By learning to think more like attackers, we
gain a better understanding of how to defeat their methods. The Common
Attack Pattern Enumeration and Classification (CAPECâ„¢) initiative is a
community-driven software security effort to create a publicly available
catalog of attack patterns. At the core of CAPEC is the concept of an
"Attack Pattern," a powerful mechanism for capturing and codifying
various approaches to cyber attack including the detailed
action-oriented attack execution flow, the capability and motivation of
the attacker, the context within which the attack is possible, the
weaknesses being targeted by the attack, characterization of the typical
impact of a successful attack, and recommended mitigations to prevent or
decrease the impact of the attack. This talk will serve as an overview
of the CAPEC project to-date and showcase the various uses cases for
CAPEC in software development, testing, architecture analysis, and
secure operations.

## Sean Barnum

Sean Barnum is a Software Assurance Principal at The MITRE Corporation
where he acts as a thought leader and senior advisor on software
assurance and cyber security topics to a wide variety of government
sponsors throughout the national security, intelligence community and
civil domains. He has over 24 years of experience in the software
industry in the areas of development, software quality assurance,
quality management, process architecture & improvement, knowledge
management and security. He is a frequent contributor, speaker and
trainer for regional and national software security and software quality
publications, conferences & events. He is very active in the software
assurance community and is involved in numerous knowledge
standards-defining efforts including the Common Weakness Enumeration
(CWE), the Common Attack Pattern Enumeration and Classification (CAPEC),
the Software Assurance Findings Expression Schema (SAFES), the Malware
Attribute Enumeration and Characterization (MAEC) and other elements of
the Software Assurance Programs of the Department of Homeland Security,
Department of Defense and NIST. He is coauthor of the book "Software
Security Engineering: A Guide for Project Managers", published by
Addison-Wesley. He serves as the official liaison between ISO/IEC JTC
1/SC 27/WG 3 and the Cyber-Security Naming & Information Structures
Group. He also acted as the lead technical subject matter expert for
design and implementation of the Air Force Application Software
Assurance Center of Excellence (ASACoE).

[Category:AppSec_DC_2010_Presentations](Category:AppSec_DC_2010_Presentations "wikilink")
[Category:OWASP_Conference_Presentations](Category:OWASP_Conference_Presentations "wikilink")