## The presentation

![Owasp_logo_normal.jpg](Owasp_logo_normal.jpg
"Owasp_logo_normal.jpg")The complex landscape of Unicode provides many
angles for exploiting software and end users. We've known about some of
these for years, we've seen buffer overflows exploited because of faulty
Unicode handling and we've seen homograph attacks in URL's. However, the
real mysteries remain latent, unapparent to most software developers and
even to the security testing community. This talk will raise awareness
around interesting attack vectors and new areas of research into
Unicode, as well as open people's eyes to the modern Visual Spoofing
attacks of today. This talk will include demonstrations of several
uncommon vulnerabilities/attack vectors, and will also include a tool
release to assist in finding these issues. A separate Spoof-detection
component will also be released to demonstrate how we can defend users
against Visual Spoofing attacks.

## The speaker

Chris Weber is co-founder at Casaba Security where he's leading product
development for new tools to assist in the field of Unicode and
Web-application security. He has spent years focusing on software
security testing for some of the world's leading software development
companies and online properties. He's authored several security books,
articles and presentations, and regularly speaks at industry
conferences. He's worked as a security researcher and consultant for
over a decade identifying hundreds of security vulnerabilities in many
widely used products including Web browsers and Web-applications.

[Category:OWASP_AppSec_DC_09](Category:OWASP_AppSec_DC_09 "wikilink")
[Category:OWASP_Conference_Presentations](Category:OWASP_Conference_Presentations "wikilink")