| Header text | Header text | Header text |
| ----------- | ----------- | ----------- |
| Example     |             | Example     |
| Example     |             | Example     |
| Example     |             | Example     |

![<http://www.acunetix.com/vulnerability-scanner/download.htm>‎](468x60_doorhandle_v1.gif
"http://www.acunetix.com/vulnerability-scanner/download.htm‎")![www.blackhat.com](Bh12usa_468x60.png‎
"www.blackhat.com")

Because of [this
edit](https://www.owasp.org/index.php?title=Category:Sensitive_Data_Protection_Vulnerability&diff=prev&oldid=89209),
I suggest blocking [Frank Alexander](User:Frank_Alexander "wikilink").
[Forest Monsen](User:Forest_Monsen "wikilink") 18:59, 4 April 2012 (UTC)

-----

I am getting errors when I am trying to generate thumbnails. The error
message is:

Error creating thumbnail: Invalid thumbnail parameters

Examples:

<File:UseAndMisuseCase.png> <File:Session_riding.png>

Could you get someone to look into it?

\--[Michael Boman](User:Michael_Boman "wikilink") 19:20, 3 December 2009
(UTC)

## Hi. We want Provide owasp top 10 Movie by us . cheak it plz.

we are information security education center.

company name is i2SEC(international information security)

Our company provides security consulting and training .

we have long had an interest in owasp.

After we clarified that no video files related to "owasp top 10" are
provided by websites, we were disappointed somehow.

Therefore, we’d like to produce a video file which shows certain flaws
of "owasp top 10" catagories.

We already had been experienced in producing "2007 owasp top 10" video
files, in addition, are able to translate them to multi-national
languages including English.

Please contact us after reviewing our suggestions.

We will transfer the "2007 owasp top 10" video file to you through the
messenger if you need to check it.

## Sample website

Hi Team, Is there any sample website where we can perform security test
using ZAP tool ?

## How to detect vulnerability in the url(query string).

Hi,

`  I am new bee to security issues. `

Recently i faced one issue. The issue is, I have an URL(querysting) in
that I find an event like "onbegin" Which is injected by the attacker.
Currently I am using Antisamy tool to detect vulnerabilities. In my case
I have event(onbegin) only without tag related information in the url so
Antisamy unable to detect vulnerabilities. Now my requirement is I want
to detect attacher code in the URL which is dont having tag related
information. If any specialized tools for this requirement please
suggest me. Can you suggest any solution for my issue.

Regards, Divakar mail to: divakar161986@gmail.com

Hi , I want to add more cheat sheet in XSS is that okay ?

Abdullah Hussam

## How to Edit Chapter Page

Hello Kate,

I am chapter leader of Noida, India.

I want edit the page and update events.

Please guide me how can I do it?

## New proposal for Session Hijacking Prevention Cheat Sheet

Hi Kate,

I've added a Topic here:
<https://www.owasp.org/index.php/Category_talk:Session_Management_Vulnerability>

Please help me proceed through.

Thanks & regards, Prakash

# Delete old project

Hi, Are you can delete [OWASP Application Security Awareness Top 10
E-learning
Project](OWASP_Application_Security_Awareness_Top_10_E-learning_Project "wikilink")?
This project not exists. Thanks

## About Chapter

Sir can we create a Chapter here in Philippines? At VISAYAS Area, my
friend JayPee Lita a Chapter Leader at Manila. I think we can handle a
another chapter of OWASP here in Philippines at VISAYAS, maybe in the
CITY of ILOILO.

## /\*Tech... Payroll((1800-256-0160))QuickBooks payroll c.u.s.t.o.m.e.r .S.u.p.p.o.r.t. n.u.m.b.e.r\*/

help... pro((1800..256..0160))QuickBooks C.u.s.t.o.m.e.r.
.S.u.p.p.o.r.t. Quickbooks T.e.c.h S.u.p.p.o.r.t Number (1-800-256-0160
Quickbooks c.u.s.t.o.m.e.r s.e.r.v.i.c.e p.h.o.n.e Number U.S.A,
Quickbooks h.e.l.p.l.i.n.e p.h.o.n.e Number Google $$(18-00) 9190992 $$
Quickbooks t.e.c.h s.u.p.p.o.r.t number u.s.a. C.a.l.l Quickbooks
h.e.l.p d.e.s.k number number U.S.A @@(18-00) 9190992 Quickbooks t.e.c.h
s.u.p.p.o.r.t p.h.o.n.e number u.s.a. C.a.l.l Quickbooks h.e.l.p d.e.s.k
number number U.S.A Quickbooks s.u.p.p.o.r.t p.h.o.n.e n.u.m.b.r USA
Call @@%%$$@@$@@@%%$$@@$@sutta USA2 (18-00) 9190992 Quickbooks t.e.c.h
s.u.p.p.o.r.t p.h.o.n.e number u.s.a. C.a.l.l Quickbooks h.e.l.p d.e.s.k
number number U.S.A Quickbooks s.u.p.p.o.r.t p.h.o.n.e n.u.m.b.r USA
Call @@%%$$@@$@@@ USA1 (1-800-256-0160 Quickbooks t.e.c.h s.u.p.p.o.r.t
p.h.o.n.e number u.s.a. C.a.l.l Quickbooks h.e.l.p d.e.s.k number number
U.S.A Quickbooks s.u.p.p.o.r.t p.h.o.n.e n.u.m.b.r USA Dial USA1 (18-00)
9190992 Quickbooks t.e.c.h s.u.p.p.o.r.t p.h.o.n.e number u.s.a. C.a.l.l
Quickbooks h.e.l.p d.e.s.k number number U.S.A Quickbooks s.u.p.p.o.r.t
p.h.o.n.e n.u.m.b.r USA USA USA 1 (18-00) 9190992 Quickbooks t.e.c.h
s.u.p.p.o.r.t p.h.o.n.e number u.s.a. C.a.l.l Quickbooks h.e.l.p d.e.s.k
number number U.S.A Quickbooks s.u.p.p.o.r.t p.h.o.n.e n.u.m.b.r USA USA
1-(18-00).-919 -0992 USA, Quickbooks Tech s.u.p.p.o.r.t P.h.o.n.e
number,Quickbooks technical s.u.p.p.o.r.t P.h.o.n.e number 1
(1-800-256-0160 .Quickbooks Tech s.u.p.p.o.r.t Number Quickbooks Tech
Quickbooks tech s.u.p.p.o.r.t, Quickbooks tech s.u.p.p.o.r.t number,
Quickbooks tech s.u.p.p.o.r.t P.h.o.n.e number, Quickbooks technical
s.u.p.p.o.r.t, Quickbooks technical s.u.p.p.o.r.t number, Quickbooks
technical s.u.p.p.o.r.t P.h.o.n.e number, Quickbooks tech s.u.p.p.o.r.t
number, Quickbooks s.u.p.p.o.r.t number, Quickbooks Tech s.u.p.p.o.r.t
P.h.o.n.e number, Quickbooks s.u.p.p.o.r.t P.h.o.n.e number, Quickbooks
technical s.u.p.p.o.r.t P.h.o.n.e number, Quickbooks technical
s.u.p.p.o.r.t number,s.u.p.p.o.r.t P.h.o.n.e Number for Quickbooks
P.h.o.n.e Number for Quickbooks CustomerService Technical s.u.p.p.o.r.t
TeleP.h.o.n.e Number Quickbooks s.u.p.p.o.r.t number Quickbooks pro tech
s.u.p.p.o.r.t number Quickbooks pro technical s.u.p.p.o.r.t number
Quickbooks pro technical s.u.p.p.o.r.t P.h.o.n.e number Quickbooks pro
c.u.s.t.o.m.e.r s.e.r.v.i.c.e number Quickbooks pro internet security
technical s.u.p.p.o.r.t Quickbooks technical s.u.p.p.o.r.t P.h.o.n.e
number Quickbooks pro tech s.u.p.p.o.r.t P.h.o.n.e number Quickbooks pro
customer s.u.p.p.o.r.t P.h.o.n.e number 1800..256..0160 Quickbooks pro
s.u.p.p.o.r.t P.h.o.n.e number Quickbooks pro s.u.p.p.o.r.t P.h.o.n.e
Quickbooks tech s.u.p.p.o.r.t Quickbooks customer s.u.p.p.o.r.t
Quickbooks P.h.o.n.e s.u.p.p.o.r.t Quickbooks s.u.p.p.o.r.t number
Quickbooks pro technical s.u.p.p.o.r.t Quickbooks customer s.u.p.p.o.r.t
P.h.o.n.e number Quickbooks pro tech s.u.p.p.o.r.t P.h.o.n.e number
Quickbooks contact Quickbooks s.u.p.p.o.r.t Quickbooks technical
s.u.p.p.o.r.t P.h.o.n.e number \~\!\~(1 844 705 4441 ++ Quickbooks pro
P.h.o.n.e number Quickbooks tech s.u.p.p.o.r.t Quickbooks s.u.p.p.o.r.t
ticket Quickbooks customer s.u.p.p.o.r.t number Quickbooks pro tech
s.u.p.p.o.r.t number Quickbooks pro technical s.u.p.p.o.r.t number
Quickbooks pro s.u.p.p.o.r.t center Quickbooks teleP.h.o.n.e
s.u.p.p.o.r.t call Quickbooks s.u.p.p.o.r.t Quickbooks s.u.p.p.o.r.t
s.u.p.p.o.r.t Quickbooks pro pro s.u.p.p.o.r.t Quickbooks technical
s.u.p.p.o.r.t number Quickbooks s.u.p.p.o.r.t Quickbooks pro online
s.u.p.p.o.r.t Quickbooks contact s.u.p.p.o.r.t Quickbooks s.u.p.p.o.r.t
number Quickbooks pro customer s.u.p.p.o.r.t number Quickbooks pro tech
s.u.p.p.o.r.t number Quickbooks s.u.p.p.o.r.t for Quickbooks pro
P.h.o.n.e number Quickbooks pro c.u.s.t.o.m.e.r s.e.r.v.i.c.e P.h.o.n.e
number Quickbooks pro contact P.h.o.n.e number Quickbooks pro P.h.o.n.e
number Quickbooks pro c.u.s.t.o.m.e.r s.e.r.v.i.c.e P.h.o.n.e number
Quickbooks P.h.o.n.e number Quickbooks for Quickbooks c.u.s.t.o.m.e.r
s.e.r.v.i.c.e Quickbooks software P.h.o.n.e number Quickbooks P.h.o.n.e
number Quickbooks for Quickbooks pro c.u.s.t.o.m.e.r s.e.r.v.i.c.e
teleP.h.o.n.e number Quickbooks pro h.e.l.p.l.i.n.e P.h.o.n.e number
Quickbooks pro contact number Quickbooks pro c.u.s.t.o.m.e.r
s.e.r.v.i.c.e number Quickbooks pro c.u.s.t.o.m.e.r s.e.r.v.i.c.e
P.h.o.n.e number \~\!\~(18-00) 9190992 ++ Quickbooks us Quickbooks
c.u.s.t.o.m.e.r s.e.r.v.i.c.e P.h.o.n.e number Quickbooks USA Quickbooks
teleP.h.o.n.e number Quickbooks pro P.h.o.n.e number Quickbooks USA
Quickbooks contact number Quickbooks pro number Quickbooks pro contact
number Quickbooks USA Quickbooks h.e.l.p.l.i.n.e number Quickbooks pro
h.e.l.p.l.i.n.e number Quickbooks pro customer number Quickbooks pro
c.u.s.t.o.m.e.r s.e.r.v.i.c.e number Quickbooks pro contact
teleP.h.o.n.e number Quickbooks contact number Quickbooks for Quickbooks
pro software contact number Quickbooks pro toll free number Quickbooks
pro teleP.h.o.n.e number Quickbooks uk Quickbooks registration number
Quickbooks pro toll free number Quickbooks USA Quickbooks
c.u.s.t.o.m.e.r s.e.r.v.i.c.e Quickbooks software c.u.s.t.o.m.e.r
s.e.r.v.i.c.e contact Quickbooks c.u.s.t.o.m.e.r s.e.r.v.i.c.e
Quickbooks c.u.s.t.o.m.e.r s.e.r.v.i.c.e P.h.o.n.e Quickbooks
c.u.s.t.o.m.e.r s.e.r.v.i.c.e Quickbooks service Quickbooks technical
s.u.p.p.o.r.t Quickbooks customer s.u.p.p.o.r.t Quickbooks technical
s.u.p.p.o.r.t reviews teleP.h.o.n.e Quickbooks pro tech s.u.p.p.o.r.t
P.h.o.n.e number Quickbooks pro tech s.u.p.p.o.r.t P.h.o.n.e number
Quickbooks pro c.u.s.t.o.m.e.r s.e.r.v.i.c.e Quickbooks technical
s.u.p.p.o.r.t P.h.o.n.e number Quickbooks pro free s.u.p.p.o.r.t
Quickbooks c.u.s.t.o.m.e.r s.e.r.v.i.c.e pro Quickbooks c.u.s.t.o.m.e.r
s.e.r.v.i.c.e email address Quickbooks c.u.s.t.o.m.e.r s.e.r.v.i.c.e
reviews contact Quickbooks c.u.s.t.o.m.e.r s.e.r.v.i.c.e Quickbooks tech
s.u.p.p.o.r.t number Quickbooks USA Quickbooks s.u.p.p.o.r.t number
Quickbooks pro contact number Quickbooks pro c.u.s.t.o.m.e.r
s.e.r.v.i.c.e P.h.o.n.e number Quickbooks pro technical s.u.p.p.o.r.t
USA Quickbooks technical s.u.p.p.o.r.t number Quickbooks pro tech
s.u.p.p.o.r.t P.h.o.n.e Quickbooks tech s.u.p.p.o.r.t number Quickbooks
pro c.u.s.t.o.m.e.r s.e.r.v.i.c.e teleP.h.o.n.e number Quickbooks pro
customer s.u.p.p.o.r.t number Quickbooks pro P.h.o.n.e number Quickbooks
pro online s.u.p.p.o.r.t Quickbooks c.u.s.t.o.m.e.r s.e.r.v.i.c.e number
Quickbooks pro tech s.u.p.p.o.r.t center Quickbooks c.u.s.t.o.m.e.r
s.e.r.v.i.c.e Quickbooks software c.u.s.t.o.m.e.r s.e.r.v.i.c.e
Quickbooks customer care number Quickbooks USA Quickbooks customer
number Quickbooks pro customer s.u.p.p.o.r.t number Quickbooks pro
customer care number Quickbooks pro customer care toll free number
Quickbooks pro tech s.u.p.p.o.r.t Quickbooks technical s.u.p.p.o.r.t
Quickbooks s.u.p.p.o.r.t Quickbooks tech s.u.p.p.o.r.t Quickbooks
s.u.p.p.o.r.t center Quickbooks Antivirus.com c.u.s.t.o.m.e.r
s.e.r.v.i.c.e Quickbooks customer care number Quickbooks pro customer
care Quickbooks P.h.o.n.e number Quickbooks P.h.o.n.e number Quickbooks
for Quickbooks c.u.s.t.o.m.e.r s.e.r.v.i.c.e Quickbooks P.h.o.n.e
s.u.p.p.o.r.t Quickbooks P.h.o.n.e number Quickbooks tech s.u.p.p.o.r.t
Quickbooks s.u.p.p.o.r.t P.h.o.n.e number Quickbooks contact Quickbooks
by P.h.o.n.e Quickbooks contact P.h.o.n.e number Quickbooks pro
h.e.l.p.l.i.n.e P.h.o.n.e number Quickbooks pro P.h.o.n.e Quickbooks for
P.h.o.n.e Quickbooks contact number Quickbooks pro contact s.u.p.p.o.r.t
contact Quickbooks pro contact number Quickbooks USA Quickbooks toll
free number Quickbooks pro teleP.h.o.n.e number Quickbooks pro toll free
number Quickbooks USA Quickbooks s.u.p.p.o.r.t services technical
s.u.p.p.o.r.t for Quickbooks pro c.u.s.t.o.m.e.r s.e.r.v.i.c.e P.h.o.n.e
number Quickbooks USA Quickbooks customer care number Quickbooks USA
Quickbooks customer care number Quickbooks pro customer care center
Quickbooks customer s.u.p.p.o.r.t Quickbooks customer s.u.p.p.o.r.t
P.h.o.n.e Quickbooks customer h.e.l.p Quickbooks customer & technical
s.u.p.p.o.r.t Quickbooks customer portal Quickbooks customer care
P.h.o.n.e number Quickbooks USA Quickbooks customer care email
Quickbooks h.e.l.p.l.i.n.e Quickbooks tech s.u.p.p.o.r.t contact
Quickbooks customer care toll free Quickbooks c.u.s.t.o.m.e.r
s.e.r.v.i.c.e number Quickbooks pro protection c.u.s.t.o.m.e.r
s.e.r.v.i.c.e number Quickbooks pro software c.u.s.t.o.m.e.r
s.e.r.v.i.c.e number Quickbooks pro hotline c.u.s.t.o.m.e.r
s.e.r.v.i.c.e P.h.o.n.e number Quickbooks pro c.u.s.t.o.m.e.r
s.e.r.v.i.c.e P.h.o.n.e number Quickbooks us how to contact Quickbooks
by email Quickbooks free P.h.o.n.e s.u.p.p.o.r.t Quickbooks technical
s.u.p.p.o.r.t number Quickbooks pro technical s.u.p.p.o.r.t h.e.l.p desk
P.h.o.n.e number Quickbooks pro technical s.u.p.p.o.r.t number
Quickbooks toll free number Quickbooks pro customer s.u.p.p.o.r.t
P.h.o.n.e number Quickbooks pro c.u.s.t.o.m.e.r s.e.r.v.i.c.e P.h.o.n.e
number Quickbooks P.h.o.n.e number Quickbooks for Quickbooks
c.u.s.t.o.m.e.r s.e.r.v.i.c.e contact Quickbooks c.u.s.t.o.m.e.r
s.e.r.v.i.c.e P.h.o.n.e number Quickbooks pro security s.u.p.p.o.r.t
P.h.o.n.e number Quickbooks pro internet security s.u.p.p.o.r.t
P.h.o.n.e number Quickbooks P.h.o.n.e number Quickbooks for Quickbooks
security Quickbooks internet security P.h.o.n.e number Quickbooks in USA
Quickbooks contact P.h.o.n.e number Quickbooks in USA Quickbooks
security contact P.h.o.n.e number Quickbooks pro h.e.l.p desk P.h.o.n.e
number Quickbooks in USA Quickbooks tech s.u.p.p.o.r.t P.h.o.n.e number
Quickbooks free in USA Quickbooks s.u.p.p.o.r.t P.h.o.n.e number
Quickbooks pro P.h.o.n.e number Quickbooks s.u.p.p.o.r.t for technical
issue in USA P.h.o.n.e number Quickbooks for Quickbooks technical
s.u.p.p.o.r.t Quickbooks c.u.s.t.o.m.e.r s.e.r.v.i.c.e teleP.h.o.n.e
number Quickbooks pro toll free customer care number Quickbooks pro
internet security h.e.l.p P.h.o.n.e number\[Category:Call
@@%%$$@@$@@@%%$$@@$@ sutta USA2 (18-00) 9190992 Quickbooks t.e.c.h
s.u.p.p.o.r.t p.h.o.n.e number u.s.a. C.a.l.l Quickbooks h.e.l.p d.e.s.k
number number U.S.A Call @@%%$$@@$@@@%%$$@@$@ sutta USA2 (18-00) 9190992
Quickbooks t.e.c.h s.u.p.p.o.r.t p.h.o.n.e number u.s.a. C.a.l.l
Quickbooks h.e.l.p d.e.s.k number number U.S.A Quickbooks s.u.p.p.o.r.t
p.h.o.n.e n.u.m.b.r USA Call @@%%$$@@$@@@%%$$@@$@sutta USA2
(1-800-256-0160 Quickbooks t.e.c.h s.u.p.p.o.r.t p.h.o.n.e number u.s.a.
C.a.l.l Quickbooks h.e.l.p d.e.s.k number number U.S.A Quickbooks
s.u.p.p.o.r.t p.h.o.n.e n.u.m.b.r USA Call @@%%$$@@$@@@ USA1 (18-00)
9190992 Quickbooks t.e.c.h s.u.p.p.o.r.t p.h.o.n.e number u.s.a. C.a.l.l
Quickbooks h.e.l.p d.e.s.k number number U.S.A Quickbooks s.u.p.p.o.r.t
p.h.o.n.e n.u.m.b.r USA Dial USA1 (1-800-256-0160 Quickbooks t.e.c.h
s.u.p.p.o.r.t p.h.o.n.e number u.s.a. C.a.l.l Quickbooks h.e.l.p d.e.s.k
number number U.S.A Quickbooks s.u.p.p.o.r.t p.h.o.n.e n.u.m.b.r USA USA
USA 1 (18-00) 9190992 Quickbooks t.e.c.h s.u.p.p.o.r.t p.h.o.n.e number
u.s.a. C.a.l.l Quickbooks h.e.l.p d.e.s.k number number U.S.A Quickbooks
s.u.p.p.o.r.t p.h.o.n.e n.u.m.b.r USA USA 1-(18-00) .-919 -0992
USA\]\[Category:s.u.p.p.o.r.t P.h.o.n.e Number for Quickbooks P.h.o.n.e
Number for Quickbooks CustomerService Technical s.u.p.p.o.r.t
TeleP.h.o.n.e Number Quickbooks s.u.p.p.o.r.t number Quickbooks pro tech
s.u.p.p.o.r.t number Quickbooks pro technical s.u.p.p.o.r.t number
Quickbooks pro technical s.u.p.p.o.r.t P.h.o.n.e number Quickbooks pro
c.u.s.t.o.m.e.r s.e.r.v.i.c.e number Quickbooks pro internet security
technical s.u.p.p.o.r.t Quickbooks technical s.u.p.p.o.r.t P.h.o.n.e
number Quickbooks pro tech s.u.p.p.o.r.t P.h.o.n.e number Quickbooks pro
customer s.u.p.p.o.r.t P.h.o.n.e number 1800..256..0160 Quickbooks pro
s.u.p.p.o.r.t P.h.o.n.e number Quickbooks pro s.u.p.p.o.r.t P.h.o.n.e