## Local News

**`Meeting``
 ``Location`**`    The Bothell campus of the University of Washington is located near `
` the North end of Lake Washington, at the intersection of Highway 522 and Interstate 405. `
` Multiple bus routes converge on campus, parking requires payment. `
` Everyone is welcome to join us at our chapter meetings.`

<h2>

Upcoming Events:

</h2>

<table border="1" cellpadding="15px" width="100%">

<tr>

<td>

<h3>

OWASP Summer of Code Sprint

</h3>

The OWASP Summer of Code Sprint is seeking students. Apply by July 3rd
if you would like to participate in a 2 month open source coding
project. Students that successfully complete a project receive $1500 and
coding experience. Check out this link for more info and to see what
projects are available:
<https://www.owasp.org/index.php/Summer_Code_Sprint2015#OWASP_Summer_Code_Sprint_2015>

</td>

</tr>

</table>



<h2>

Previous Events:

</h2>



<table border="1" cellpadding="15px" width="100%">

<tr>

<td>

<h3>

Caliber Security Workshop

</h3>

Caliber Security is visiting our campus to host a workshop on “Real
world Security”, from 8-10pm in UW1-321. Practical penetration testing
topics will be covered. Anyone interested is encouraged to attend.

</td>

</tr>

</table>



<table border="1" cellpadding="15px" width="100%">

<tr>

<td>

<h3>

Joint ACM, OWASP, UWB Gray Hats Team Citizen Four Moving Screening

</h3>

Please join us May 14, 2015 from 3:30pm in Discovery Hall, room 162.
CITIZENFOUR is a real life thriller, unfolding by the minute, giving
audiences unprecedented access to filmmaker Laura Poitras and journalist
Glenn Greenwald’s encounters with Edward Snowden in Hong Kong, as he
hands over classified documents providing evidence of mass
indiscriminate and illegal invasions of privacy by the National Security
Agency (NSA). The student groups ACM, OWASP, and Gray Hats are
co-hosting this event open to all UW students, faculty, staff, and
guests. Come to hear about our organizations and become a new member,
then stay to learn the details of Edward Snowden's battle against
government surveillance\!

<table>

<tr>

<td>

![<File:Citizen-four-event.png>](Citizen-four-event.png
"File:Citizen-four-event.png")

</td>

</tr>

</table>

</td>

</tr>

</table>



<table border="1" cellpadding="15px" width="100%">

<tr>

<td>

<h3>

How to Start a Successful Cyber Security Business: 12 May, 2015

</h3>

Please join us May 12, 2015 from 4-5 pm in Discovery Hall, room 162.
OWASP will be hosting Rick Kam, founder and president of ID Experts. He
will be visiting our campus to present his entrepreneurship experience
in cyber security. He will talk about what happens when an entity
experiences a cyber attack and breaches regulated data. He will also
discuss how cyber risks are creating many new career opportunities in
cyber security, privacy, and compliance.

Rick Kam brings 28 years of business experience including a long
management career with IBM Corporation. Under his leadership, ID Experts
has grown to become a leading provider of data breach protection,
response, and identity theft protection services. Rick has also chaired
the Public Health Information (PHI) Project, a working group made up of
members from the ANSI IDSP that focus on fraud and risk mitigation
associated with the Financial Services Roundatable, BITS, and Internet
Security Alliance. The working group developed an industry leading white
paper: “The Financial Impact of Breached Protected Health Information –
A Business Case for Enhanced PHI Security.”

This event is an excellent opportunity to learn about cyber security
entrepreneurship and the current cyber security landscape. Rick will
also be available to answer questions at the end. This event is open to
everyone. We hope to see you there\!

<table>

<tr>

<td>

![<File:Quote-rickcam.jpg>](Quote-rickcam.jpg "File:Quote-rickcam.jpg")

</td>

</tr>

</table>

</td>

</tr>

</table>



<table border="1" cellpadding="15px" width="100%">

<tr>

<td>

<h3>

Application Security Testing in the Real World: 10 Apr, 2015

</h3>

Mike de Libreo, accomplished developer and security specialist, and one
of the Seattle OWASP chapter leaders, presents an introduction to
application security testing in the business world and some of the most
useful tools.

**Presentation Slides:**
![<File:Security_testing_real_world.pptx>](Security_testing_real_world.pptx
"File:Security_testing_real_world.pptx")

**Links to the Demo Vulnerabilities Investigated in the Lab:**

  - [Gravity Forms - blind
    SQLi](https://wpvulndb.com/vulnerabilities/7849)
  - [Wordpress SEO - blind
    SQLi](https://wpvulndb.com/vulnerabilities/7841)
  - [Inboundio-marketing - remote shell
    upload](http://k3dsec.blogspot.com/2015/03/wordpress-plugin-inboundio-marketing.html)
  - [Ab-google-map-travel - persistent
    XSS](https://wpvulndb.com/vulnerabilities/7862)

**Bonus:** the first twenty attendees are entered in a free raffle for
OWASP swag\!\!\!

In this hands-on lab we will go over tools and techniques for
application security testing that will help testers and developers find
issues and exploit them. You will be guided through the lab using a
pre-configured workstation as an "attacker" and targeting a vulnerable
website (e.g. Wordpress with known vulnerable plugins). We will also
discuss techniques to improve your bug hunting besides the usual
"vulnerable web app" approach.

Please join us in the Network Security Lab, UW1-321, on April 10th from
4pm to 5:30pm. Presented by OWASP and the Gray Hats team.

<table>

<tr>

<td>

![<File:Application_Security_Testing_Event_(2)_4_10_2015.JPG>](Application_Security_Testing_Event_\(2\)_4_10_2015.JPG
"File:Application_Security_Testing_Event_(2)_4_10_2015.JPG")

</td>

<td>

![<File:Application_Security_Testing_Event_(3)_4_10_2015.JPG>](Application_Security_Testing_Event_\(3\)_4_10_2015.JPG
"File:Application_Security_Testing_Event_(3)_4_10_2015.JPG")

</td>

</tr>

</table>

</td>

</tr>

</table>



<table border="1" cellpadding="15px" width="100%">

<tr>

<td>

<h3>

Tour Microsoft's Cybercrime Center (DCU): 1 Apr, 2015

</h3>

Tour the innovative Cybercrime Center on the Microsoft Campus. Learn
about the extent of cybercrime and what's being done to stop it. This 45
minute tour will be lead by the center's staff who have in depth
knowledge of the current state of the art.

  - [**News
    Story**](http://news.microsoft.com/stories/cybercrime/index.html)

<table>

<tr>

<td>

![<File:MS_Cybercime_Tour_(1)_4_1_2015.jpg>](MS_Cybercime_Tour_\(1\)_4_1_2015.jpg
"File:MS_Cybercime_Tour_(1)_4_1_2015.jpg")

</td>

<td>

![<File:MS_Cybercime_Tour_(2)_4_1_2015.jpg>](MS_Cybercime_Tour_\(2\)_4_1_2015.jpg
"File:MS_Cybercime_Tour_(2)_4_1_2015.jpg")

</td>

</tr>

</table>

</td>

</tr>

</table>



<table border="1" cellpadding="15px" width="100%">

<tr>

<td>

<h3>

Hacking for Defense: 27 Feb, 2015

</h3>

**Presentation Audio File:** ![Presentation Audio
MP3](OWASP_UWB_web-hacking-for-defense_2015-02-27.mp3
"Presentation Audio MP3")

**Presentation Slides:** ![Presentation Slides
PDF](OWASP-UWB_hacking-for-defense-2015-02-27_slides.pdf
"Presentation Slides PDF")

The next chapter event, in cooperation with the UWB Gray Hats team, is
4pm - 5:30pm Friday, February 27.

Ever wondered if your website was secure? Want to know how to test it?
Join us as David L. Morse presents an introduction to stress-testing
your website\!

  - We'll play with hacking tools specifically designed to identify the
    most commonly attacked vulnerabilities - using the results to
    "harden" our website.
  - We'll have a brief overview and then hands-on excercises. No
    experience needed\!
  - We'll meet on campus in building UW1, Room 321 - the network
    security lab.

<table>

<tr>

<td>

![<File:OWASP-UWB_web-hacking-for-defense_2015-02-27_audiance2.jpg>](OWASP-UWB_web-hacking-for-defense_2015-02-27_audiance2.jpg
"File:OWASP-UWB_web-hacking-for-defense_2015-02-27_audiance2.jpg")

</td>

<td>

![Image:OWASP-UWB_web-hacking-for-defense_2015-02-27_audiance.jpg](OWASP-UWB_web-hacking-for-defense_2015-02-27_audiance.jpg
"Image:OWASP-UWB_web-hacking-for-defense_2015-02-27_audiance.jpg")

</td>

</tr>

</table>

</td>

</tr>

</table>



[Category:OWASP Chapter](Category:OWASP_Chapter "wikilink")
[Category:OWASP Student
Chapter](Category:OWASP_Student_Chapter "wikilink")