# OWASP Vancouver

Welcome to the Vancouver chapter homepage. The chapter leader is
[Farshad Abasi](mailto:farshad.abasi@owasp.org).
<b>[Click here](http://lists.owasp.org/mailman/listinfo/owasp-vancouver)
to join the local chapter mailing list. Mailing list archives can be
found [here](http://lists.owasp.org/pipermail/owasp-vancouver)</b>

# Watch Online

You can **subscribe** to the **[OWASP Vancouver YouTube
channel](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCSXBb_cPvieNm-MoLjjtbXw)**
[here](https://youtu.be/wsAC2EPuOG8) where you can also check out the
archives (big thanks to George Pajari).

# Upcoming Events

Upcoming events for 2019 are as follows:

## Exploit your way through vulnerabilities, and learn application security concepts

**Date:** March 28, 2019 // **Location:** Plenty of Fish, 24th floor,
555 W Hastings St, Vancouver, BC V6B 4N4, Canada
**Registration** is required and [available
here](https://www.eventbrite.ca/e/exploit-your-way-through-vulnerabilities-and-learn-application-security-concepts-tickets-57412103146).

**Overview:** want to test your skills in identifying web application
vulnerabilities? How about learning and applying real application
security concepts? Here is your chance to do so using the CMD+CTRL cyber
range, a unique, immersive environment where players exploit their way
through hundreds of vulnerabilities that lurk in business applications
today. Success means learning quickly that attack and defence is all
about thinking on your feet.

For each vulnerability you uncover, you are awarded points. Climb the
interactive leaderboard for a chance to win fantastic prizes\! CMD+CTRL
is ideal for development teams to train and develop skills, but anyone
involved in keeping your organization’s data secure can play - from
developers and managers and even CISOs.

**Requirements:** participants will need the following:

• A laptop to connect to the CMD+CTRL website

• Download and install Burp Suite (Community is okay) or OWASP ZAP

**Live streaming:** not available for this session.

**Thank you:** we would like to thank **Security Innovation** for coming
to Vancouver and bringing us the CMD+CTRL platform for this session,
**Plenty of Fish** for hosting and providing pizza + pop, and **Jeevan
Singh** and all the volunteers for helping make this happen\!

<hr />

# Past Events

The following is a listing of our past events:

## Double Header: Continuous Risk-based Authentication + AppSec Incident Response

**Date:** January 24, 2019 // **Location:** Ping Identity, 564 Beatty
St. - Suite 700 (7F, buzz 0700), Vancouver
This is a special double header edition of the OWASP Vancouer meet-up
series with two great speakers: Tanya Janca, and Siva Ram. They will be
speaking on Application Security Incident Response, and Continuous
Risk-based Authentication respectively. Details are provided below.

<strong><u>1st Speaker:</u></strong> <u>Tanya Janca (6-7pm)</u>

<strong>Title:</strong> Are You Ready for the Worst? Application
Security Incident Response

<strong>Abstract:</strong> No matter the size of your IT shop, if the
first time you think about the security of the software is during a
major incident, it’s not going to go well.  I will teach developers and
security teams to prepare for, manage, and hopefully prevent,
application security incidents.  Starting with preparation; do you have
a proper application inventory? How do you manage your technology
stack?  Disaster Recover?  Backup strategy?  Do you have a WAF? 
Monitoring? Tools that are at the ready when the s\* hits the fan? 
During an incident; who’s managing the incident? Do you know? What is
triage? Who does the investigation? Do you have a “safe” place to do
potentially destructive testing?  This talk outlines an immediate plan
for the audience to get started, with a list of open source tools the
security team and/or developers will use to ensure that they are ready,
for the worst.

<strong>Speaker Bio:</strong> <span><span>Tanya Janca is a senior cloud
advocate for Microsoft, specializing in application and cloud security;
evangelizing software security and advocating for developers and
operations folks alike through public speaking, her open source project
OWASP DevSlop, and various forms of teaching via workshops, blogs and
community events. As an ethical hacker, OWASP Project and Chapter
Leader, Women in Security and Technology (WIST) chapter leader, software
developer and professional computer geek of 20+ years, she is a person
who is truly fascinated by the ‘science’ of computer science. 
</span></span>

**Live recording:** you can find a recording of this session here:
<https://youtu.be/_19DwUe3jG8><span><span>
</span></span>

<strong><u>2nd Speaker:</u></strong> <u>Siva Ram (7-8pm)</u>

<strong>Title:</strong> Managing convenience and security: Moving
towards continuous risk based authentication

<strong>Abstract:</strong> Your organization does not have to be
breached for you to end up having to send notification of a data
compromise. All it takes is for one of the millions of websites to lose
credentials and your site can be vulnerable, due to credential stuffing
attacks. Attackers have also become very sophisticated in combining
different data sources and attack vectors (phishing, social engineering,
malware, etc) to launch successful attacks, resulting in account
takeovers and data compromise. This presentation will discuss some of
the attack trends on customer facing applications and how your
authentication methods need to adapt to keep your sites secure.

<strong><strong>Speaker Bio:</strong> </strong>Siva Ram is the Head of
Security & Fraud risk for commercial banking digital channels at a
global bank. He started off as a developer and has 18 years experience
in the security industry. He has been a pentester, PCI/PA QSA, and
currently responsible for protecting mission critical banking
applications against cyber and fraud attacks<span><span>. </span></span>

**Live recording:** you can find a recording of this session here:
<https://youtu.be/RcoJrvJdH1g>

## Hunting for vulnerabilities in OWASP Juice Shop

**Date:** November 29, 2018 // **Location:** OpenDNS/CISCO, 675 W
Hastings St, Suite 600, Vancouver, BC, Canada.

**Speaker:** Jeevan Singh
**Abstract:** Have you ever wanted a hack a website? Did you want to see
the types of vulnerabilities which bad guys exploit? This limited
availability workshop will go through a purposefully vulnerable website
and show you the different ways that individuals with malicious intent
will look to do harm. After a brief demo, you will have time to hack the
website yourself to see if you can find holes yourself..

**Speaker Bio:** Jeevan Singh is a Senior Security Engineer for an HR
software company, where he is embedding security into all aspects of the
software development process. Jeevan enjoys building security culture
within organizations and educating staff on security best practices.
Jeevan is responsible for a wide variety of tasks including:
architecting security solutions, working with development teams to
resolve security vulnerabilities and building out security features.
Before life in the security space, Jeevan had a wide variety of
development and leadership roles over the past 15 years.

## Threat Modelling Gamification: How to get developers to think differently at secure coding

**Date:** September 27, 2018 // **Location:** OpenDNS/CISCO, 675 W
Hastings St, Suite 600, Vancouver, BC, Canada.

**Speaker:** Dana Epp
**Abstract:** The concept of writing safer, more resilient software
against the threat landscape of today is a daunting task. Especially
when tight budgets and deadlines are constantly under pressure and the
rapid adoption of faster release cycles makes it far too easy to 'skip'
thinking about the security of the systems and data we rely on to
deliver our software. In this session, Dana will introduce threat
modeling in a way to help you educate your developers and DevOps on how
to look for threats and how to think like an attacker, all while having
a bit of fun. From learning how to draw developers in with gamification
using a simple card game called 'Elevation of Privilege' that focuses on
identifying threats in your software to leveraging free tools published
by Microsoft to aid you in documenting and responding to such threats,
you will walk away with a better understanding of how to look at your
software more defensively. Practical exercises and real world
discussions will strengthen the presentation and re-enforce the learning
objective... to write safer, more secure software in every sprint.

**Speaker Bio:** Dana Epp has spent decades as an architect that focuses
on helping secure software, data and infrastructure. When he's not
helping to build and grow software companies he's advising others on
adapting and embracing the ever changing landscape of IT. As both a
Microsoft Regional Director and Azure Security MVP, he spends a great
deal of time on security engineering in the cloud, focused on building
safe, decoupled systems. His latest project is a cloud threat protection
platform for Azure, which you can check out at www.auditwolf.com. You
can also follow him at www.danaepp.com.

## What you need to know about Web Application Firewalls (WAF)

**Date:** July 26, 2018 // **Location:** ACL, 980 Howe Street, 13th
floor, Vancouver, BC V6Z 1N9, Canada

**Speaker:** Yvan Boily

**Abstract:** Join Yvan Boily for an overview of WAF technologies, how
they can be deployed to protect your application and organization, their
weaknesses and strengths, and learn how you can use FTW and other tools
to test the effectiveness of your firewall.

**Speaker Bio:** Yvan Boily has been working in IT Security for more
than 15 years in the government and finance sector.  Previously the
chapter lead for OWASP and a co-founder of BSidesVancouver and MARS,
Yvan Boily is currently working with Fastly as a Security Researcher.

## Transitioning into DevSecOps

**Date:** May 31 // **Location:** Microsoft Canada, Suite 1100 - 1111 W.
Georgia, Vancouver, BC

**For those of you who are unable to make it in person, you can [watch
the live-stream here](https://youtu.be/wsAC2EPuOG8)** and **subscribe to
the [OWASP Vancouver YouTube channel](https://youtu.be/wsAC2EPuOG8)**
[here](https://youtu.be/wsAC2EPuOG8). (big thanks to George Pajari)
**Speaker:** Roger Trevisan
**Abstract:** Software development practices have evolved quite a bit in
the recent years, from Waterfall, to the multiple flavors of Agile and
now into DevOps. Security teams often have challenges keeping up with
the speed and scalability requirements from the new development and
operations practices and end up creating barriers that may cause
disruption into development and operations life-cycle.

This presentation aims to cover the main reasons why security teams are
failing to bolt on security into the current development models. It also
shine some light into the difference between traditional security,
DevOps + Security and DevSecOps and expose some of the processes, tools
and cultural changes required for a successful DevSecOps
organization./
**Speaker bio:** Roger Trevisan is a CISSP certified security
professional with 12+ years of experience with web application security,
secure coding, secure development lifecycle, penetration testing, risk
assessment, vulnerability management, network security and information
systems administration. As a skilled penetration tester and application
security professional, Roger has helped high-profile companies in
industries such as financial, healthcare and telecommunication to
identify and address a large number of critical security
vulnerabilities.

## Managing an Application Security Testing and Vulnerability Management Program in a CI/CD Environment

**Date:** March 29 ([registration](https://goo.gl/t8zH4W) is free and
required as capacity is limited).
**Speaker:** Karim Lalji // **Location:** Mozzila's Vancouver office
(https://www.mozilla.org/en-US/contact/spaces/vancouver/, buzz 209)
**Abstract:** Modern software environments have adopted new
methodologies to developing products including continuous integration
and continuous delivery, more commonly referred to CI/CD. Application
security testing and vulnerability management is an important aspect in
software environments; unfortunately this practice is often lacking in
both effectiveness and requisite knowledge when dealt with from an
applications perspective as opposed to traditional IT infrastructures.
The challenges are further extended in CI/CD environments where critical
code is merging into production at regular intervals without proper
security coverage.
This talk will aim to provide individuals with a working understanding
of application security testing (AST) as well as vulnerability
management in a modern software enterprise employing DevOps practices,
and more specifically a CI/CD pipeline. The talk will discuss security
testing at different stages of the S-SDLC from source code analysis to
penetration testing and how to effectively manage vulnerabilities. The
discussion is applicable to anyone with an interest in security or
software in general but is of particular relevance to managers and
architects interested in building an effective application security
program.

**Speaker Bio:** Karim has a background in application security
particularly in the banking/finance industries and currently works in a
senior offensive security consulting role conducting penetration testing
and threat/vulnerability assessments for a variety of clients. Karim was
a software engineer in his past life and securing applications has been
a strong focus for a good portion of his career.

## Finding High-Risk Web Vulnerabilities with a Small Number of Generic Payloads

**Date:** Jan 25 // **Location:** Mozzila's Vancouver office
(https://www.mozilla.org/en-US/contact/spaces/vancouver/, buzz 209)
**Speaker:** Miles (San-Tsai) Sun
**Abstract:** Using a small number of generic payloads to discover
high-risk web vulnerabilities (e.g., SQL injection, Remote Code
Execution) is highly desirable during a penetration test. In this talk,
I will present and demonstrate a lightweight vulnerability detection
approach complimenting to traditional automatic scanners. Using an
expression probing technique, this approach can systematically probe
whether user-controlled input is treated as code by the server-side
program logic, as well as the situational context of the injected
payload, and its underlying language. Compared to automatic
vulnerability scanners, this approach imposes tiny network footprint
(e.g., quick, negligible system impact, avoid IP blocking), is agnostic
to application platform/language, and friendly to Web Application
Firewall/Intrusion Detection and Prevention System. This lightweight
detection technique could address or reduce many common challenges faced
by penetration testers.

**Speaker Bio:** San-Tsai Sun is a passionate information security
professional and researcher. With more than 20 years of expertise in
system development and application security, he is currently an Advanced
Security Engineer at Staples, where he enjoys his work in penetration
test, static/dynamic vulnerability scan, source code review, risk
analysis/threat modeling, and application security design consultancy.
Prior to Staples, he was a Senior Information Security Consultant at
HSBC Bank. San-Tsai holds a PhD in Information Security from the
University of British Columbia, and has been helping hundred of websites
to address high risk security vulnerabilities found on their sites.

**Presentation content:** you can find the slide decks for this
presentation
[here](http://www.zyxgroup.com/presentations/OWASPVan-SanTsai-BreakFixProbingBasedVulnerabilityScan.pptx).

# Participation

OWASP Foundation ([Overview
Slides](https://docs.google.com/a/owasp.org/presentation/d/10wi1EWFCPZwCpkB6qZaBNN8mR2XfQs8sLxcj9SCsP6c/edit?usp=sharing))
is a professional association of [global members](Membership "wikilink")
and is open to anyone interested in learning more about software
security. Local chapters are run independently and guided by the
[Chapter_Leader_Handbook](Chapter_Leader_Handbook "wikilink"). As a
[501(c)(3)](About_OWASP "wikilink") non-profit professional association
your support and sponsorship of any meeting venue and/or refreshments is
tax-deductible. Financial contributions should only be made online using
the authorized online chapter donation button. To be a <b>SPEAKER</b> at
ANY OWASP Chapter in the world simply review the [speaker
agreement](Speaker_Agreement "wikilink") and then contact the local
chapter leader with details of what OWASP PROJECT, independent research
or related software security topic you would like to present on.

# Sponsorship/Membership

![Btn_donate_SM.gif](Btn_donate_SM.gif "Btn_donate_SM.gif") to this
chapter or become a local chapter supporter.

Or consider the value of [Individual, Corporate, or Academic Supporter
membership](Membership "wikilink"). Ready to become a member?
![Join_Now_BlueIcon.JPG](Join_Now_BlueIcon.JPG
"Join_Now_BlueIcon.JPG")

[Category:OWASP Chapter](Category:OWASP_Chapter "wikilink")