**Vinay Bansal, Martin Nystrom**
Vinay K. Bansal (CISSP, CISA, GIAC) works as a senior security architect
in Cisco System's Corporate Security Programs Office. He is the lead
architect for Cisco’s “Web and Application Security Architecture Team”
that focuses on improving security of Cisco’s 2000+ IT Web Applications,
databases and mobile services. Vinay has 17+ years of industry
experience in successfully leading; architecting and implementing IT
based solutions with focus on security/Internet/e-commerce applications.
Vinay worked at various Fortune 500 companies including Cisco, IBM,
Nokia, Experian, and Plessey Telecom (UK). Vinay holds a Master's degree
in Computer Science from Duke University.

Martin G. Nystrom (CISSP) is an InfoSec Investigations Manager for the
Computer Security Incident Response Team (CSIRT) at Cisco Systems. He
leads the global security monitoring team and provides guidance for
incident response and security initiatives. Prior to joining Cisco's
CSIRT, he was responsible for designing and consulting on secure
architectures for IT projects. Martin worked as an IT architect and a
Java programmer for 12 years prior, where he built his experience in the
pharmaceutical and computer industries. He received a bachelor's degree
from Iowa State University in 1990, a master's degree from NC State
University in 2003, and his CISSP certification in 2004. He is the
author of O'Reilly's SQL Injection Defenses, and co-author of Security
Monitoring. He is a frequent conference speaker, and was honored on the
Java One Rock Star Wall of Fame. He enjoys speaking atFIRST and Cisco
Networkers conferences, and providing security guidance to customers via
Cisco's Executive Briefing Program. Most of Martin's papers and presos
can be found on his web site at xianshield.org

[Back](OWASP_IRELAND_2010 "wikilink")