#### About

![Owasp-nova.JPG](Owasp-nova.JPG "Owasp-nova.JPG")The **OWASP Northern
VA Local Chapter** meetings are FREE and OPEN to anyone interested in
learning more about application security. We encourage individuals to
provide knowledge transfer via hands-on training and presentations of
specific OWASP projects and research topics and sharing SDLC knowledge.
OWASP Northern Virginia has almost 1000 members with a wide range of
experience and backgrounds. We are also one of the two hosts with OWASP
DC, hosting the 2016 OWASP AppSec USA Conference in Washington, DC.
We'll be looking for members to help volunteer during the next few
months.

We the encourage vendor-agnostic presentations to utilize the OWASP
Powerpoint template when applicable and individual volunteerism to
enable perpetual growth. As a 501(3)c non-profit association donations
of meeting space or refreshments sponsorship is encouraged, simply
contact the local chapter leaders listed on this page to discuss. Prior
to participating with OWASP please review the Chapter Rules.

The chapter is committed to providing an engaging experience for a
variety of audience types ranging from local students and those
beginning in app-sec, to those experienced and accomplished
professionals who are looking for competent collaborators for
OWASP-related projects. To this end, we will continue to conduct both
monthly chapter meetings as well as out-of-band curricula, on
application security topics.

You may also want to follow [@OWASPNoVA](http://twitter.com/OWASPNoVA/)
on Twitter.

### Schedule

Meetings are (generally) held the first Thursday of the month.

Note: We need speakers and topics\! If you want to present, please
contact [Mike](mailto:michael.mccabe@owasp.org) or
[Abdullah](mailto:abdullah.munawar@owasp.org). We're very open to
hearing from all our members.

## Next Meeting

We'll post all meetings on the Meetup page below.

We can also be contacted through the comment or messages systems on
Meetup.

For latest news check the meetup page here:
[Meetup](http://www.meetup.com/OWASP-Northern-Virginia-Chapter/).

### History

The original DC Chapter was founded in June 2004 by [Jeff
Williams](mailto:jeff.williams@owasp.org) and has had members from
Virginia to Delaware. In April 2005 a new chapter, OWASP Washington VA
Local Chapter, was formed and the DC Chapter was renamed to DC-Maryland.
The two are sister chapters and include common members and shared
discourse. The chapters meet in opposite halves of the month to
facilitate this relationship.

__NOTOC__

[Category:OWASP Chapter](Category:OWASP_Chapter "wikilink")
[Category:United States](Category:United_States "wikilink")