## The presentation

![Dan_Cornell_web.jpg](Dan_Cornell_web.jpg
"Dan_Cornell_web.jpg")Identifying application-level vulnerabilities via
penetration tests and code reviews is only the first step in actually
addressing the underlying risk. Managing vulnerabilities for
applications is more challenging than dealing with traditional
infrastructure-level vulnerabilities because they typically require the
coordination of security teams with application development teams and
require security managers to secure time from developers during
already-cramped development and release schedules. In addition, fixes
require changes to custom application code and application-specific
business logic rather than the patches and configuration changes that
are often sufficient to address infrastructure-level vulnerabilities.
This presentation details many of the pitfalls organizations encounter
while trying to manage application-level vulnerabilities as well as
outlines strategies security teams can use for communicating with
development teams. Similarities and differences between security teams'
practice of vulnerability management and development teams' practice of
defect management will be addressed in order to facilitate healthy
communication between these groups.

## The speaker

Dan Cornell has over ten years of experience architecting and developing
web-based software systems. He leads Denim Group's security research
team in investigating the application of secure coding and development
techniques to improve web-based software development methodologies. Dan
was the founding coordinator and chairman for the Java Users Group of
San Antonio (JUGSA) and is currently the San Antonio chapter leader of
the Open Web Application Security Project (OWASP). He is a recognized
expert in the area of web application security for
SearchSoftwareQuality.com and the primary author of Sprajax, OWASP's
open source tool for assessing the security of AJAX-enabled web
applications.

[Category:OWASP_AppSec_DC_09](Category:OWASP_AppSec_DC_09 "wikilink")
[Category:OWASP_Conference_Presentations](Category:OWASP_Conference_Presentations "wikilink")