## The presentation

![Owasp_logo_normal.jpg](Owasp_logo_normal.jpg
"Owasp_logo_normal.jpg")Cyber attacks are being committed more often by
professionals, and are increasingly driven by financial motives.
Researchers have discovered the increasing popularity of a certain class
of attacks that target business logic. Business logic attacks are a set
of legal application transactions that are used to carry out a malicious
operation that is not part of normal business practices. For example,
brute forcing coupon codes in an ecommerce application to receive
multiple discounts. This presentation will provide a quick introduction
to business logic attacks, their unique characteristics and the
motivation behind their uptick. The session will suggest a
classification method for these attacks from which attendees can draw a
set of required mitigation capabilities. We will discuss capabilities
required for detecting automated interaction with the application,
different types of repetitions, flow tampering and even compromised
credentials. We will also contemplate on the usage of mitigation
techniques such as Captcha, introducing delays and more. Concluding this
session we will bring up the claim that all these capabilities can be
introduced in the form of a “virtual patch” using a web application
firewall, rather than being exclusively fixed in application code.

## The speaker

Noa Bar-Yosef is a senior security researcher with the Imperva
Application Defense Center. She conducts research on database and Web
application vulnerabilities. Previously, she has held TA positions in
courses on programming and network security at Tel Aviv University and
Open University. She has also been a software engineer with educational
software vendor Sunburst Technology. Bar-Yosef holds a Masters of
Science degree (specializing in information security) from Tel-Aviv
University, School of Computer Science and a Bachelors of Science degree
from The Hebrew University, School of Computer Science. During her work
in Imperva Noa has discovered multiple vulnerabilities in various
commercial application and worked with software vendors on their
resolutions. She also presented at a number of conferences including
Infosec Canada (2008), SECRYPT 2007 (Spain)

[Category:OWASP_AppSec_Conference](Category:OWASP_AppSec_Conference "wikilink")
[Category:OWASP_BeNeLux_09](Category:OWASP_BeNeLux_09 "wikilink")
[Category:OWASP WAF](Category:OWASP_WAF "wikilink")