## Local News

## 1st Chapter Meeting

Wed, 20 March 2019

18:00 – 21:30 GMT

**`Meeting``   ``Location`**

IMC Auditorium 002, International Manufacturing Centre Building (WMG)

University of Warwick

University of Warwick

Coventry

CV4 7AL

## About this Event

**General:**

We're really excited to be holding the first Warwick and Coventry OWASP
Chapter meetup. We've had tremendous support already from the local
Universities, local businesses, other chapters (\<3 you London),
speakers, and individuals who've reached out for no other reason than to
see how they can help out. So thanks\!

We're using Eventbrite solely to gauge figures for attendance - OWASP
meetings are always FREE.

**Schedule:**

Doors Open at 6:00pm for registration, pizza, drinks and networking.
Events start at 6:30pm.

6:30-6.40pm - Welcome, Brief introduction to OWASP & Warwick Chapter.

6:45-9.30pm - Speaker slots

Speaker slot \#1: **'Red Team and Stuff**' - Liam Hagan & Doug McLeod
(Nettitude)

Speaker slot \#2: **'Inside a web vulnerability scanner**' - Paul
Johnston (PortSwigger)

Speaker slot \#3: **'Smart Locks, Dumb Security**' - David Lodge
(Pentestpartners)

IMPORTANT: Warwick Manufacturing Group (WMG) do not require photographic
identification to enter the premises, although future meetups planned
for different locations, such as IBM Warwick, might. Please make sure
you bring ID with you to all future meetings, just in-case... although
we will try to make sure everyone is aware of this beforehand.

CODE OF CONDUCT

We hope you enjoy our events, we care deeply about inclusivity and
diversity so that OWASP is a comfortable and welcoming community for
everyone. Please reach out to one of our chapter leaders if you have any
feedback or would like to speak to us, we take these matters very
seriously. You can find out more about our policies here:
https://www.owasp.org/index.php/Governance/Conference_Policies

For any questions please contact one of the chapter leaders:

daniel.reece@owasp.org, brian.mcglone@owasp.org, & neil.lines@owasp.org
![WMGlogo.png](WMGlogo.png "WMGlogo.png")

`Event Location Sponsor`
` `
`   `
`  `
`   `
`   `

[Category:OWASP Chapter](Category:OWASP_Chapter "wikilink")
[Category:Europe](Category:Europe "wikilink")