# Main

<div style="width:100%;height:160px;border:0,margin:0;overflow: hidden;">

![OWASP_Project_Header.jpg](OWASP_Project_Header.jpg
"OWASP_Project_Header.jpg")

</div>

## Background

Web application firewalls (WAF) are an evolving information security
technology designed to protect web sites from attack. WAF solutions are
capable of preventing attacks that network firewalls and intrusion
detection systems can't, and they do not require modification of
application source code.

As today's web application attacks expand and their relative level of
sophistication increases, it is vitally important to develop a
standardized criteria for WAFs evaluation. [The Web Application Firewall
Evaluation Criteria Project
(WAFEC)](http://projects.webappsec.org/w/page/13246985/Web%20Application%20Firewall%20Evaluation%20Criteria)
serves two goals:

  - Help stakeholders understand what a WAF is and its role in
    protecting web sites.
  - Provide a tool for users to make an educated decision when selecting
    a WAF.

## Project Structure

WAFEC is a joined project between [The Web Application Security
Consortium (WASC)](http://www.webappsec.org) and
[OWASP](http://www.owasp.org) making sure the best minds in the
industry, both those who work day and night to develop WAFs and those
who implement and use them, are committed to ensure WAFEC is
comprehensive, accurate and objective.

## History

The first version of WAFEC was released in 2006 and is in wide use in
the industry. In 2013, the project team was gearing up to release
version 2. Due to a number of issues with WAFEC as outlined in the 2013
OWASP AppSecEU presentation [WASC/OWASP
WAFEC](https://www.owasp.org/images/c/ca/WASC-OWASP_WAFEC_-_Achim_Hoffmann%2BOfer_Shezaf.pdf)
this project was sidelined until earlier this year when it transitioned
from Ofer Shezaf to Tony Turner. We are now working on rebooting the
WAFEC project and plan to release it in the second half of 2016. If you
want to be a part of the project check out the
{{\#switchtablink:Volunteering|Volunteering}} page or join the the
[mailing
list](http://lists.webappsec.org/mailman/listinfo/wasc-wafec_lists.webappsec.org)
and chime in when you feel ready.

## More information

If you have any other question or idea, please contact WAFEC project
leader [Tony Turner](mailto:tony.turner@owasp.org).

## Presentations

  - [WAFEC: From Industry to Community Project - AppsecEU 2013 (Shezaf
    and
    Hoffmann)](https://www.owasp.org/images/c/ca/WASC-OWASP_WAFEC_-_Achim_Hoffmann%2BOfer_Shezaf.pdf)
    [Video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=XUEpjyJ8sgY)
  - [WAFEC, or How to Choose WAF Technology (RAFAEL SAN MIGUEL
    CARRASCO)](http://www.slideshare.net/vaceitunofist/wafec)
  - [WAFs When Are They Useful (Ivan
    Ristic)](https://www.owasp.org/images/9/9c/OWASPAppSecEU2006_WAFs_WhenAreTheyUseful.ppt)

## News and Events

  - September 2015 AppSecUSA Workshop
  - June 2015 Project Reboot
  - October 2018 Project Refresh

## Mailing List

  - [WAFEC Mailing list
    (WASC)](http://lists.webappsec.org/mailman/listinfo/wasc-wafec_lists.webappsec.org)

# FAQ

**1. Is WAFEC unfairly biased in favor of vendors who participate?**

ANSWER: All contributions sourced by the vendor sub-group or provided by
the active employee for any WAF vendor are peer-reviewed by all other
participating vendors before the update can be committed. Vendors who
want to have input in the direction of the WAFEC standard should see the
[Volunteering](https://www.owasp.org/index.php/WASC_OWASP_Web_Application_Firewall_Evaluation_Criteria_Project#tab=Volunteering)
link and get involved.

**2. Is WAFEC a dead project?**

ANSWER: Most certainly not\! WAFEC has been rebooted as of June 2015
under the leadership of Tony Turner and a project workshop is being held
at the AppSecUSA conference in San Francisco to renew efforts at the
next version. See the
[Roadmap](https://www.owasp.org/index.php/WASC_OWASP_Web_Application_Firewall_Evaluation_Criteria_Project#tab=Roadmap)
for more information

**3. Does WAFEC certify WAF vendors?**

ANSWER: WAFEC does not currently provide certification but instead
intends to provide tools for others to perform their own independent
evaluation for WAF vendors. It is important that any evaluation take
into consideration the unique requirements and documented use cases for
the WAF as not all deployments will have the same requirements.

**4. Does WAFEC recommend $vendorX?**

ANSWER: WAFEC remains impartial and does not recommend or discourage any
vendor over another. There are often scenarios where a less capable
product may be a smarter choice than a best of breed solution, or a
niche product may be very well-suited for a particular use case. The
WAFEC team works with multiple
[vendors](https://www.owasp.org/index.php/WASC_OWASP_Web_Application_Firewall_Evaluation_Criteria_Project#tab=Project_Team)
and does not show bias in any way. Any vendor is welcome to participate
in standards development and contributions will be made public
consistent with OWASP transparency expectations.

**5. Is WAFEC releasing 2.0 or 3.0 next?**

ANSWER: WAFEC will be releasing a slightly revised version of the 2012
v2.0 efforts sometime in early 2017. Most revisions articulated by the
new (2015) project team will be reserved for the 3.0 release planned for
post 3.0 release

# Roadmap

### As of October 2018 the objectives are

## Summer 2015

  - <s>Re-establish project team</s> - Initial team and structure
    created - Still LFV
  - <s>Migrate existing v2.0 doc to Google Docs</s> - Completed
  - Address outstanding comments - Comment integration completed into
    gDoc, but updates not yet incorporated into document

## Fall 2015

  - <s>Conduct workshop at AppSecUSA 2015</s>
  - <s>Decide on versioning</s> - Plan to release mostly unchanged 2.0
    and then move most revisions into future 3.0 document
  - <s>Reformat document for 3.0</s>
  - <s>Update existing sections in 2.0 to be relevant for 2015</s>

## Winter 2015

  - <s>Logo and design work</s>
  - <s>Marketing strategy</s>

**2.0**

  - <s>Complete 1st draft</s>
  - <s>Plan for 2.0 release</s>
  - Internal Testing - pushed until later phase

**3.0** - pushed until after 2.0 release

  - <s>Create new document outline
  - Begin document re-work
  - Create framework for evaluating controls</s>

## Spring 2016

  - Release 2.0 - delayed until Q4

**3.0** - see 3.0 notes

  - <s>Complete 1st draft
  - Internal Testing</s>
  - Conference presentation - delayed due to project team availability.
    Revisit in Q1 2017

## Summer 2016-Fall 2018

  - Period of Inactivity due to project team unavailability

## Winter 2018

  - Socialize the project and upcoming release
  - Finalize 2.0 Comments
  - New WAFEC sections:
      - Differences between WAFs and next-generation firewalls and
        intrusion prevention systems
      - Performance and reliability criteria
      - Anti-automation/anti-bot capabilities
      - Anti-fraud capabilities, credential theft
      - Threat intel/reputation capabilities
      - Hybrid and cloud deployment models (Diving into CDN technology
        would be useful)

## Spring 2019

  - Pre-release/Beta

## Summer 2019

  - Release 2.0
  - Revisit associated tools like Response Matrix
  - Begin 3.0 Planning

# Project Team

**Core Team**

  - Tony Turner (Leader) – Fortress Information Security
  - Sam Stepanyan (Co-Leader) - OWASP London

**Contributors**

  - Renaud Bidou – TrendMicro (formerly Radware and DenyAll)
  - Achim Hoffmann (former WAFEC contributor)
  - Santiago Ingold
  - Jean Dogo

**Vendor Sub-group** - Newly formed as of 2015 reboot effort

  - Peter Vogt – Sentrix
  - Erwin Huber – Ergon
  - Mark Kraynak – Imperva
  - Raphael Chileshe – Radware
  - Ido Breger – F5
  - Tin Zaw - Verizon
  - John Mcllwain - Cdnetworks
  - Ryan Barnett - Akamai
  - Ory Segal - Akamai
  - Vincent Maury - DenyAll

**v2.0 Contributors** - 2012 effort

  - Achim Hoffmann, sic\[\!\]sec
  - Amichai Shulman, Imperva
  - Erwin Huber, Airlock (Ergon)
  - Mark Kraynak, Imperva
  - Ofer Shezaf, Project Lead
  - Ryan Barnett, Trustwave
  - Tal Beery, Imperva

**v2.0 Reviewers** - 2012 effort

  - Anshuman Singh, Barracuda Networks
  - Achim Hoffmann, sic\[\!\]sec
  - Christian Heinrich , Individual Contributor
  - David DeSanto, NSS Labs
  - Ido Breger, F5
  - Jason Leung, Mykonos, a Juniper Company
  - Klaubert Herr da Silveira
  - Julian Totzek, Deny All
  - Matthieu Estrade, Beeware
  - Or Katz, Individual Contributor
  - Ory Segal, Akamai
  - Paul Scott, Individual Contributor
  - Przemyslaw Skowron, Alior Bank
  - Rip, OWASP China
  - Robert Auger, Individual Contributor
  - Victor Pinenkov, Mykonos, a Juniper Company

**v1.0 Contributors**

  - Robert Auger (SPI Dynamics)
  - Ryan C. Barnett (EDS)
  - Charlie Cano (F5)
  - Anton Chuvakin (netForensics)
  - Matthieu Estrade (Bee Ware)
  - Sagar Golla (Secureprise)
  - Jeremiah Grossman (WhiteHat Security)
  - Achim Hoffmann (Individual)
  - Amit Klein (Individual)
  - Mark Kraynak (Imperva)
  - Vidyaranya Maddi (Cisco Systems)
  - Ofer Maor (Hacktics)
  - Cyrill Osterwalder (Seclutions AG)
  - Sylvain Maret (e-Xpert Solutions)
  - Gunnar Peterson (Arctec Group)
  - Pradeep Pillai (Cisco Systems)
  - Kurt R. Roemer (NetContinuum)
  - Kenneth Salchow (F5)
  - Rafael San Miguel (daVinci Consulting)
  - Greg Smith (Citrix Systems)
  - David Movshovitz (F5)
  - Ivan Ristic (Thinking Stone) \[Project Leader\]
  - Ory Segal (Watchfire)
  - Ofer Shezaf (Breach Security)
  - Andrew Stern (F5)
  - Bob Walder (NSS Group)

**If you are a prior contributor and want to participate in renewed
efforts at WAFEC 2.0 and beyond please contact [Tony
Turner](mailto:tony.turner@owasp.org).**

# Volunteering

### Current Needs include

  - Web App Pentesters experienced with WAF Bypasses
  - WAF Implementers
  - WAF Developers
  - WAF Vendor Liaisons
  - Metrics and standardization professional
  - Copy edit ninjas
  - Graphics designer

If you are interested, please contact WAFEC project leader [Tony
Turner](mailto:tony.turner@owasp.org).

# Project About

__NOTOC__ <headertabs />

[Category:OWASP_Project](Category:OWASP_Project "wikilink")
[Category:OWASP_Defenders](Category:OWASP_Defenders "wikilink")
[Category:OWASP_Builders](Category:OWASP_Builders "wikilink")
[Category:OWASP_Document](Category:OWASP_Document "wikilink")
[Category:OWASP_Download](Category:OWASP_Download "wikilink")
[Category:OWASP_WAF](Category:OWASP_WAF "wikilink")