__NOTOC__

## Local News

**`Next``   ``Meeting``   ``-``   ``The``   ``Groovy``   ``Landscape``
 ``&``   ``Grails``
 ``Security`**` 6:30PM Thursday, July 10th UberOffices - 1200 18th Street, NW, Suite 700, Washington, DC`

Everyone is welcome to join us at our chapter meetings.

Welcome to the Home Page of the Washington DC OWASP Chapter.


  - Please checkout our Meetup page (http://www.meetup.com/OWASPDC/) for
    the latest announcements or subscribe to the [mailing
    list](http://lists.owasp.org/mailman/listinfo/owasp-washington) for
    meeting information.

<!-- end list -->

  - You can follow us on Twitter as
    [@OWASPDC](http://twitter.com/owaspdc)

<!-- end list -->

  - Our recent meetings are documented on the News & Meetings tab.

<!-- end list -->

  - You can also check out the archives of this page here
    [Washington_DC Archives](Washington_DC_Archives "wikilink").

# Meetings & Events

Chapter meetings are held several times a year, typically at a location
provided by our current facility sponsor.

**Next Meeting - The Groovy Landscape & Grails Security**

The next meeting will be on Thursday, July 10, 2014 from 6:30 PM to 8:30
PM (EDT) at

**Location:** UberOffices - 1200 18th Street, NW, Suite 700, Washington,
DC

Please RSVP for the event here: <http://www.meetup.com/OWASPDC/>

**Presentation Overview:** 1st Talk - "The Groovy Landscape"

This talk is geared to those who are new to Groovy and the goal is to
put the Groovy language in is proper context. We will try to answer the
following questions:

What are the properties of the language? When and why was it developed?
Who is using it and who maintains it? Where can I use it? How do I get
started or contribute to development?

2nd Talk - "Grails Security"

Grails is a framework developed for Groovy in the vein of Rails for
Ruby. It provides a lot of features for web app security, but does it do
enough? What might you need to implement yourself, and what might be
provided? This presentation will discuss tips on securing Grails
applications, including tools that the framework provides by default for
security. It'll also discuss several shortcomings in the current
toolset, and how you can avoid them.

**Speaker:** David James - David is a software developer and consultant
who helps enterprise clients deliver software that makes a business
impact. He has been developing applications on the JVM for fifteen years
and leverages Groovy on a daily basis. David is involved in the
Arlington coworking community and is the founder of the DC Groovy user
group.

Cyrus Malekpour - Cyrus (@cmalekpour) is a software developer at
nVisium, working on web app development and security. He's currently an
undergraduate student at the University of Virginia, where he's studying
computer science with an emphasis on security and backend development.
Most of his passion is in designing and developing secure applications,
but he also has an interest in breaking into things. In his free time,
he likes to read, watch movies, and cycle.

# Participation

OWASP Local Chapter meetings are free and open. Our chapter's meetings
are informal and encourage open discussion of all aspects of application
security. Anyone in our area interested in web application security is
welcome to attend. We encourage attendees to give short presentations
about specific topics.

If you would like to make a presentation, or have any questions about
the DC Chapter, send an email to one of the chapter co-chairs or the
[Mailing List](mailto:owasp-washington__AT__lists.owasp.org).


# Twitter

{|

| style="border: 1px solid rgb(204, 204, 204); width: 100%; font-size:
95%; color: rgb(0, 0, 0); background-color: rgb(236, 236, 236);" |

**You can follow us on Twitter as
[@OWASPDC](http://twitter.com/owaspdc)** <twitter>23609877</twitter>

| style="width: 110px; font-size: 95%; color: rgb(0, 0, 0);" |

|}

# News & Recent Meetings

Archives from earlier meetings than contained on this page can be found
in the [Washington_DC Archives](Washington_DC_Archives "wikilink")

**May 2014 Meeting**

**Presentation Overview:** As mobile dating applications grow in
popularity, so does our interest in the security posture behind them.
There are a vast number of mobile dating applications available for use
today by anyone with a smart phone. We wanted to take a look at numerous
features within these apps to determine the good, the bad, and the ugly.

We will cover popular features such as location-based services,
analytics, sharing of information, in-app purchasing, and any other
features we discover to be interesting. We will analyze the type of
personal data being stored within these applications, communication
channels used to transmit information, hardware interaction with the
application, and interaction with other applications on the device. We
will answer the big questions posed by those who use these apps or want
to use these apps: Are these applications disclosing sensitive
information? How private is the communication between me and another
user? How can I be sure my data is being protected?

This talk will feature highlights from popular, obscure, and scary
dating applications to answer a simple question: “Can you find love on
the Internet without having your personal data exposed?”

**Speaker:** Jack Mannino is an Application Security expert with over a
decade of experience building, breaking, and securing into complex
systems. Jack is Co-Founder and CEO of nVisium, while also leading
research and development initiatives. With experience developing in
Java, Objective-C, and C\#, he performs risk assessments and penetration
tests for Fortune 500 companies and government agencies. Jack also
founded and leads the OWASP Mobile Application Security Project, which
is a global initiative to build secure development standards for mobile.
He is an active Android security researcher with a keen interest in
large-scale security analysis.

Abdullah Munawar is an Application Security consultant at nVisium who
specializes in mobile application testing and ripping apart new things.
With over 7 years of experience, Abdullah previously worked on the
security teams at financial and aviation organizations. Abdullah
attempts humor on a daily basis and succeeds most of the time, every
time.

**March 2014 Meeting**

**Presentation Overview:** How is identity and access management (IAM)
implemented in your in-house applications? Do the developers who
implement it have IAM expertise? Does every team implement their own
IAM? Enterprise framework development teams with IAM expertise can
address the problem by creating APIs that enable developers without IAM
expertise to implement the IAM correctly. This presentation explains
what an enterprise identity API is, why it's worthwhile to create one
and how it might be done.

**Speaker:** Adam Migus (@amigus) - Adam currently works as an IT
architect helping his clients devise and execute technology strategy.
Prior to that he was a Principal Security Architect at E\*TRADE
Financial where he created APIs as a means to improve software security.
Adam believes that software quality is critical to software security and
that many application security concerns can be addressed through
enterprise APIs. He's also held positions at McAfee and Symantec. He
earned his B.Sc. in Computer Science from Memorial University of
Newfoundland, where he also started his career in earnest as a network
administrator.

**February 2014 Meeting**

**Presentation Overview:** Bojan Simic will provide a short background
into Bitcoin and how it works. He will then provide some of his
firsthand experiences with the state of Bitcoin businesses with regard
to security and how many individuals are (insecurely) handling their
Bitcoins. These experiences will demonstrate some "hacks" that pertain
to the OWASP Top 10 as well as other types of vulnerabilities. The talk
will include an overview of simple security steps that individuals and
businesses who are working with Bitcoin should take to in order to
mitigate the chance of hackers stealing Bitcoin and Personally
Identifiable Information (PII) from them and their customers.

**Speaker:** Bojan is a security engineer in the industry as well as the
founder and main contributor to the Bitcoin Security Project
(https://bitcoinsecurityproject.org). The project is a free and open
source resource that is dedicated to spreading security awareness across
the Bitcoin community by helping individual bitcoin holders and
businesses follow security best practices. These practices ensure better
security of individual holders' investments and Bitcoin business
customers.

Professionally, Bojan has performed hundreds of penetration tests,
threat modeling, and security code reviews of different applications.
These reviews identify vulnerabilities associated with software, the
network software, and infrastructure they are deployed on. He also
performs research in the field of web application security and teaches
developer training on web application best practices, architecture, and
security.

**January 2014 Meeting**

**Summary**: This talk will include how organizations build AppSec
programs, how to gain Executive and organizational-wide acceptance to
your AppSec program and the current trends within the application
security industry.

If you have a specific question you would like discussed please just
send Rinaldi or Mike McCabe an email and they will try to incorporate it
into the talk.

Let's help each other start off 2014 strong in implementing your AppSec
goals/resolutions\! We understand you may have an unique environment but
there are common themes between disparate environments. We can learn
from the those themes and you can take them to your place of development
and apply them accordingly. This discussion will be appealing to
developers, project/program managers, application security leads and
security professionals.

""Bios"": We are going to kick-off the year in a panel format with
experts in the industry from the DC area. The panel will include:

• Lee Aber, Director, Information Security at Opower • Kevin Greene,
Software Assurance Program Manager at DHS S\&T • Rich Ronston, Director,
Security at Deltek • Jack Mannino, Chief Security Officer at nVisium &
OWASP NoVA Lead \[Moderator\]

**July 2012 Meeting**

**Topic**: OWASP Top Ten Tools and Tactics

**Abstract**: If you've spent any time defending web applications as a
security analyst, or perhaps as a developer seeking to adhere to SDLC
practices, you have likely utilized or referenced the OWASP Top 10.
Intended first as an awareness mechanism, the Top 10 covers the most
critical web application security flaws via consensus reached by a
global consortium of application security experts. The OWASP Top 10
promotes managing risk in addition to awareness training, application
testing, and remediation. To manage such risk, application security
practitioners and developers need an appropriate tool kit. This
presentation will explore tooling, tactics, analysis, and mitigation for
each of the Top 10. This discussion is a useful addition for attendees
of Security 542: Web App Penetration Testing and Ethical Hacking.

**Bio**: Russ McRee is a senior security analyst, researcher, and
founder of holisticinfosec.org, where he advocates a holistic approach
to the practice of information assurance. As manager of Microsoft Online
Service's Security Incident Management team his focuses are incident
response and web application security. He writes toolsmith, a monthly
column for the ISSA Journal, and has written for numerous other
publications including Information Security, (IN)SECURE, and OWASP. Russ
speaks regularly at conferences such as DEFCON, Black Hat, RSA, FIRST,
RAID, SecureWorld Expo, as well as ISSA events. IBM's ISS X-Force cited
him as the 6th ranked Top Vulnerability Discoverers of 2009.
Additionally, Russ volunteers as a handler for the SANS Internet Storm
Center (ISC).

**8:15-9:15 Speaker**: Kevin Johnson

**Topic**: Ninja Assessments: Stealth Security Testing for Organizations

**Abstract**: Organizations today need to be able to easily integrate
security testing within their existing processes. In this talk, Kevin
Johnson of Secure Ideas will explore various techniques and tools to
help organizations assess the security of the web applications. These
techniques are designed to be implemented easily and with little impact
on the work load of the staff.

**Bio**: Kevin Johnson is a security consultant with Secure Ideas. Kevin
came to security from a development and system administration
background. He has many years of experience performing security services
for fortune 100 companies, and in his spare time he contributes to a
large number of open source security projects. Kevin's involvement in
open-source projects is spread across a number of projects and efforts.
He is the founder of many different projects and has worked on others.
He founded BASE, which is a Web front-end for Snort analysis. He also
founded and continues to lead the SamuraiWTF live DVD. This is a live
environment focused on Web penetration testing. He also founded Yokoso
and Laudanum, which are focused on exploit delivery. Kevin is a senior
instructor for SANS and the author of Security 542: Web Application
Penetration Testing and Ethical Hacking. He also presents at industry
events, including DEFCON and ShmooCon, and for various organizations,
like Infragard, ISACA, ISSA, and the University of Florida.

**May 2012 Meeting**

**Speaker**: Rohit Sethi, Vice President, Product Development, SD
Elements

**Topic**: Is There An End to Testing Ourselves Secure?

**Abstract**: Despite years of research on best practices to integrate
security into the early phases of the SDLC, most organizations rely on
static analysis, dynamic analysis, and penetration testing as their
primary means of eliminating vulnerabilities. This approach leads to
discovering vulnerabilities late in the development process, thereby
either causing project delays or risk acceptance.

This talk is an open discussion about the presence, if any, of scalable,
measurable, approaches working to address security into the SDLC.
Consideration for how Agile development impacts effectiveness will be
explored.

Points of discussion include:

· Is static analysis sufficient? · Developer awareness training · Threat
modeling / architecture analysis · Secure requirements · Considerations
for procured applications

**Bio**: Rohit Sethi is a specialist in building security controls into
the software development life cycle (SDLC). Rohit is a SANS course
developer and instructor on Secure J2EE development. He has spoken and
taught at FS-ISAC, RSA, OWASP, Shmoocon, CSI National, Sec Tor,
Infosecurity New York and Toronto, TASK, the ISC2's Secure Leadership
series conferences, and many others. Mr. Sethi has written articles for
Dr. Dobb's Journal, TechTarget, Security Focus and the Web Application
Security Consortium (WASC), and he has been quoted as an expert in
application security for ITWorldCanada and Computer World. He also leads
the OWASP Design Patterns Security Analysis project.

Register for the meeting at <http://owaspdc.eventbrite.com/>

**March 2012 Meeting**

March 15th at 6:30-7:30pm at LivingSocial's
\[<http://maps.google.com/maps?q=1445+New+York+Avenue+Northwest,+Washington+D.C>.,+DC\&hl=en\&sll=37.0625,-95.677068\&sspn=44.204685,93.076172\&z=16
1445 New York Ave NW\] office location on the first floor at the
@hungryacademy.
Please RSVP for the event here: <http://owaspdc.eventbrite.com/>

**Speaker**: Alissa Torres

**Topic**: Application Footprinting

**Abstract**: Application footprinting is a great skill for forensic
examiners (and anyone interested in binary research) because it allows
you to marry artifacts in the registry/file creation/time/date stamps
with specific applications or user initiated events. Eventually, during
the course of an investigation, an examiner is going to run into a "new"
problem - one that hasn't previously been experienced/researched by
others in the field. Application footprinting is a simple method that
examines the interaction of a program with the operating system. The
process of footprinting will determine if the application was installed
on the system being investigated, what trace evidence exists and how
that can be mined. This presentation will include a demo of Active
Registry Monitor and its use in tracking changes made to the Windows
Registry by an open source ssh client.

**Bio**: Alissa Torres currently works as a security researcher for KEYW
Corporation in Maryland and has 10 years technical expertise in the
information technology field. Previously, she was a digital forensic
investigator on a government contractor security team. She has extensive
experience in information security, spanning government, academic and
corporate environments and holds a Bachelor’s degree from University of
Virginia and a Master’s from University of Maryland in Information
Technology. Alissa taught as an instructor at the Defense Cyber
Investigations Training Academy (DCITA), teaching incident response and
network basics to security professionals entering the forensics
community. In addition, she has presented at various industry
conferences and currently holds the following industry certifications:
GCFA, CISSP, EnCE.

**December 2011 Meeting**

**The December 21st meeting was held at
\[<http://maps.google.com/maps?q=1445+New+York+Avenue+Northwest,+Washington+D.C>.,+DC\&hl=en\&sll=37.0625,-95.677068\&sspn=44.204685,93.076172\&z=16
1445 New York Ave NW\] (Living Social) in Washington DC.**

This location is very close to both the McPherson Square and Metro
Center WMATA train stations.


  - Please **[Register](https://www.regonline.com/owaspdcdecember2011)**
    for the meeting. This helps us get a head count for food and
    beverages

<!-- end list -->

  - **Ken Johnson** and (maybe) **Chris Gates** will speak on the **New
    Features in the Web Exploitation Framework (wXf)**

<!-- end list -->

  - **Doug Wilson** and **Mark Bristow** will update on current and
    upcoming events, including AppSecDC 2012 and chapter plans for the
    next year, including an **Important Announcement** for 2012. Don't
    miss it\!

**Location Info** Please come up to the second floor, we'll just be
meeting in the room off the Living Social kitchen area.

**About our Speakers**

  -
    **Ken Johnson**
      -
        Ken Johnson is a Senior Security Architect for LivingSocial.com
        responsible for securing mobile applications, web services and
        web applications. Additionally he is the primary developer of
        the Web Exploitation Framework (wXf) and contributes to several
        open source security projects. He lives in Northern Virginia
        with his lovely wife Tracy and spends his weekends either
        stuffing his face with Sushi or getting demolished in Call of
        Duty


<!-- end list -->

  -
    **Chris Gates**
      -
        TBD

<!-- end list -->

  -

      -
        **Abstract: Updates in wXf** - Coming Soon

Our **September Meeting** was **September 29th 6:30pm** at **[2445 M
Street NW Washington,
DC 20037](http://maps.google.com/maps?q=2445+M+Street+NW+Washington,+District+of+Columbia+20037+United+States&oe=utf-8)**
**Speakers**

  - **John Steven** will speak on **Assessing your Assessment Practice**
  - **Krystal Moon** and **Quang Pham** will speak on **DHS Software
    Assurance Pocket Guides**
  - **Doug Wilson** and **Mark Bristow** will update on current and
    upcoming events.

**About our Speakers**

  -
    **John Steven**

<!-- end list -->

  -

      -
        John Steven is the Senior Director, Advanced Technology
        Consulting at Cigital with over a decade of hands-on experience
        in software security. John's expertise runs the gamut of
        software security from threat modeling and architectural risk
        analysis, through static analysis (with an emphasis on
        automation), to security testing. As a consultant, John has
        provided strategic direction as a trusted advisor to many
        multi-national corporations. John's keen interest in automation
        keeps Cigital technology at the cutting edge. He has served as
        co-editor of the Building Security In department of IEEE
        Security & Privacy magazine, speaks with regularity at
        conferences and trade shows, and is the leader of the Northern
        Virginia OWASP chapter. John holds a B.S. in Computer
        Engineering and an M.S. in Computer Science both from Case
        Western Reserve University.



  -

      -
        **Abstract: Assessing your Assessment Practice** - Years ago,
        organizations embraced Penetration Testing to find
        vulnerabilities in their applications. Later, vulnerabilities
        remained and many added a Source Code Review practice, often
        supported by commercial tooling. Others possess "Holistic
        Assessment" schemes which combine techniques in hopes of finding
        an even broader range of vulnerabilities their applications may
        possess.Years into what most consider maturation, organizations
        continue to let crippling vulnerability into production despite
        costly assessment. What's going on?

<!-- end list -->

  -

      -
        In this presentation, we'll consider assessment practices of
        various shapes and sizes focusing on particularly interesting
        Fortune 100 companies (assessing 300-1000 apps / year) as well
        as the single-man-shop. We'll discuss assessment coverage (code
        and vulnerability), cost, and measures of remediation.

<!-- end list -->

  -

      -
        Next, we'll discuss what methodological, tool-based,
        measurement, and other techniques can dramatically improve cost,
        coverage, or successful remediation in your assessment practice.



  -
    **Krystal Moon**

<!-- end list -->

  -

      -
        Krystal Moon is a Cyber Security Analyst at SRA International,
        Inc. She currently supports the Department of Homeland Security
        Software Assurance Program where one of her tasks is
        co-authoring the Secure Coding Pocket Guide. Previously, she
        provided certification and accreditation support for various
        government agencies. She completed her Bachelor of Science in IT
        with a concentration in Information Security and Master of
        Science in Applied IT at George Mason Univeristy.

<!-- end list -->

  -
    **Quang Pham**

<!-- end list -->

  -

      -
        Quang Pham is a Cyber Security Analyst at SRA International,
        INC. At SRA, Quang is supporting the Department of Homeland
        Security’s Software Assurance (SwA) program. One of his roles in
        the support of the SwA program is to co-author the “Architecture
        and Design Considerations for Secure Software” Pocket Guide and
        the “Requirements and Analysis for Secure Software” Pocket
        Guide. Quang has a Bachelor’s in Computer Engineering and
        Electrical Engineering at Penn State and has been at SRA for 9
        months.



  -

      -
        **Abstract: Software Assurance Pocket Guides** - The Software
        Assurance (SwA) Pocket Guide Series comprises free, downloadable
        documents on software assurance in acquisition and outsourcing,
        software assurance in development, the software assurance life
        cycle, and software assurance measurement and information needs.
        SwA Pocket Guides are developed collaboratively by the SwA Forum
        and Working Groups, which function as a stakeholder community
        that welcomes additional participation in advancing and refining
        software security. The Pocket Guides are offered as informative
        use only and a good starting point for the relevant practices.

<!-- end list -->

  -

      -
        **Secure Coding**

<!-- end list -->

  -

      -
        Secure coding is a prerequisite for producing robustly secure
        software. The development of secure software is a complex
        endeavor and requires a systematic process. The most commonly
        exploited vulnerabilities are seemingly easily avoided defects
        in software. Producing secure code is not an absolute science
        because it depends on a wide range of variables, some of which
        cannot be easily or accurately measured. Such variables range
        from the language or platform being used to the nature of the
        software being developed or the data with which the software is
        meant to work. This guide does not prescribe answers for all
        possible situations. Rather, it discusses fundamental practices
        for secure coding, and lists resources that provide more
        information about these practices. Using these resources,
        practitioners can write more secure code for their particular
        environment.

<!-- end list -->

  -

      -
        **Architecture and Design Considerations for Secure Software**

<!-- end list -->

  -

      -
        The Guide to the Software Engineering Body of Knowledge (SWEBOK)
        defines the design phase as both "the process of defining the
        architecture, components, interfaces, and other characteristics
        of a system or component" and "the result of \[that\] process."
        The software design phase is the software engineering life cycle
        activity where software requirements are analyzed in order to
        produce a description of the software’s internal structure that
        will serve as the basis for its implementation. The software
        design phase consists of the architectural design and detailed
        design activities. These activities follow software requirements
        analysis phase and precedes the software implementation the
        Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC). This volume of the
        pocket guide compiles architecture and design software
        techniques for security and offers guidance on when they should
        be employed during the SDLC.

Facility Sponsor: Anonymous      Refreshment Sponsor:


**August 2011 Meeting**

Our next meeting is August 24th at
\[<http://maps.google.com/maps?q=1445+New+York+Avenue+Northwest,+Washington+D.C>.,+DC\&hl=en\&sll=37.0625,-95.677068\&sspn=44.204685,93.076172\&z=16
1445 New York Ave NW\] (Living Social) in Washington DC.

Refreshments will be served starting at 6:30 PM, with the presentation
starting around 7.

This location is very close to both the McPherson Square and Metro
Center WMATA train stations.


  - Please **[REGISTER
    HERE](http://www.regonline.com/Register/Checkin.aspx?EventID=1003187)**
    if you are going to attend so we have an accurate head count.
  - Julian Cohen will speak on **Cross-Origin Resource Inclusion in
    HTML5**
  - Doug Wilson & Mark Bristow will update on current and upcoming
    events.

**About our Speaker**

  -
    **Julian Cohen**

<!-- end list -->

  -

      -
        Julian is a security researcher from New York City. When he
        isn't explaining different vulnerability classes to developers,
        Julian spends his time finding bugs and studying exploitation
        techniques. He has previously done information security work for
        two consulting companies, a defense contractor, a public utility
        and a handful of web startups, but he still hasn't found the job
        he's really looking for.

<!-- end list -->

  -

      -
        Julian runs NYU Poly's world-renowned CSAW CTF competition. In
        his downtime, Julian writes technical articles for a number of
        security blogs and participates in CTF competitions around the
        world.

<!-- end list -->

  -
    **Abstract**

<!-- end list -->

  -

      -
        **Cross-Origin Resource Inclusion in HTML5** - Cross-Origin
        Resource Inclusion is an HTML5 vulnerability that takes
        advantage of Cross-Origin Resource Sharing to bypass Same-Site
        Origin Policy with XMLHttpRequest objects. This talk will cover
        Web 2.0 application design trends that allow for this
        vulnerability to be exploitable. Basic concepts that are
        necessary for Cross-Origin Resource Sharing to exist will be
        covered throughly and w3c specifications will be cited. An
        example web application will be used to demonstrate how this
        functionality is used today, how it can be implemented
        improperly (and properly) and how it can be exploited by a
        malicious attacker.


Facility Sponsor: [Living Social](http://www.livingsocial.com)     
Refreshment Sponsor: [Living
Social](http://www.livingsocial.com)  [Stratum
Security](http://www.stratumsecurity.com)



**July 2011 Meeting**

Our next meeting is July 21st 6:00pm [2445 M Street NW Washington,
DC 20037](http://maps.google.com/maps?q=2445+M+Street+NW+Washington,+District+of+Columbia+20037+United+States&oe=utf-8)
(**\*NOTE NEW LOCATION\***)

  - Please [Register
    Here](http://www.regonline.com/Register/Checkin.aspx?EventID=989237)
  - Jack Mannino will speak on **Building Secure Android Applications**
  - Doug Wilson & Mark Bristow will update on current and upcoming
    events.

**NEW LOCATION** Folks will need to come up to the 8th floor, when they
get off the elevator, walk towards the concierge, then make a left and
walk towards the university room

**About our Speakers**

  -
    **Jack Mannino**

<!-- end list -->

  -

      -
        Jack Mannino is the CEO of nVisium Security, an application
        security services firm located within the Washington DC area. At
        nVisium, he provides mobile and web application security
        services including source code reviews, penetration testing,
        threat modeling, and training. He is the co-leader and founder
        of the OWASP Mobile Security Project, which is a global
        initiative to improve the state of security in the mobile
        industry. Jack also serves as a board member for the OWASP
        Northern Virginia chapter.

<!-- end list -->

  -
    **Abstract**

<!-- end list -->

  -

      -
        **Building Secure Android Applications** - Mobile platforms are
        gaining momentum as an attacker's favorite new playground. We
        are seeing huge increases in mobile malware, mobile exploits,
        and the ever common insecure mobile applications themselves.
        Mature development shops and startups alike are releasing new
        applications at the speed of light. Like many other rapidly
        booming markets, technical innovation is far outpacing the
        adoption of security best-practices. This is a problem we must
        solve sooner than later.

<!-- end list -->

  -

      -
        This presentation will highlight many of the new security and
        privacy challenges developers, organizations, and consumers must
        be aware of. Android will be our target of interest during this
        presentation. A threat model for the Android platform will be
        presented, identifying the various layers where risks are
        introduced. We will discuss the top mobile security risks and
        the security controls used to mitigate them using guidance
        provided by the OWASP Mobile Security Project.

<!-- end list -->

  -

      -
        Expect a ton of code samples and live remediation of
        vulnerabilities. The OWASP GoatDroid project will be used to
        demonstrate various Android application security flaws.
        GoatDroid is a fully featured training environment for exploring
        the attack surface of Android apps. It is highly extendable, and
        includes several robust RESTful web services.

<!-- end list -->

  -

      -
        At the end of this presentation, attendees will understand how
        to identify Android risks, how to build secure applications for
        the Android platform, and will be exposed to the current
        initiatives within the Mobile Security Project.


Facility Sponsor: Anonymous      Refreshment Sponsor:






**March 2010 Meeting**

  - Our next meeting will be [March 24th at 6:30 PM, at 801 22nd Street
    NW, Room
    B149](http://upcoming.yahoo.com/event/5617790/DC/Washington/OWASP-DC-March-Meeting/GWU-Phillips-Hall/)
    on the GWU campus in Washington DC (\*NOTE NEW LOCATION\*)

<!-- end list -->

  - Jeff Ennis from Veracode will be presenting on Application Risk
    Management
  - Dan Philpott will be briefing on the upcoming NIST SP covering Web
    Application Security
  - Chuck Willis will be giving an update on the OWASP BWA project and
    releasing and update to BWA
  - Doug Wilson will update on plans for future meetings and upcoming
    events.

**About our Speakers**

**Jeff Ennis**

  -
    Jeff Ennis is a Solutions Architect for Veracode, Inc. He has more
    than 20 years experience in information technology. He recently
    served as Security Solutions Manager for the Federal Division of IBM
    Internet Security Systems, where he and his team of security
    architects assisted DoD, Civilian, and Intel agencies with
    addressing their security requirements as they dealt with an
    ever-changing threat landscape.. Throughout his career he has
    represented both the end user and vendor communities, including
    Nortel Networks, UUNET, and Lockheed Martin.

<!-- end list -->

  -
    **Abstract**

<!-- end list -->

  -
    **Application Risk Management** - Application vulnerabilities are
    steeply on the rise. At $350 billion per year software is the
    largest manufacturing industry in the world yet there are no uniform
    standards or insight into security, risk or liability of the final
    product. The development environment is becoming increasingly
    complex – application origin ranges from internally developed code,
    outsourced, 3rd party, Open Source, and Commercial Off the Shelf
    software. Ensuring that these entities are creating secure software
    is becoming a daunting task. Lots of emphasis is placed on IT
    controls, patching, etc, but the new attack vector is your
    application. During this presentation we will recap the state of
    software security today, discuss some initiatives which are
    requiring application risk management, and provide suggestions on
    how you can begin managing the application risk at your
    organization.

**Dan Philpott**

  -
    Dan is the maintainer of fismapedia.org, and a recognized expert in
    IT standards and policy in the DC Metro Area. Dan routinely helps
    review and contribute to NIST SP and Report documents.

**Chuck Willis**

  -
    Chuck is a Technical Director with MANDIANT, and the founder of the
    OWASP Broken Web Application Project (OWASP BWA). Chuck has
    presented on the OWASP BWA at AppSecDC 2009 and at DoD Cyber Crime
    2010, and will be releasing an updated version of OWASP BWA at this
    meeting.

**December 2009 Meeting**

  - Our next meeting will be December 9th at 6:30 PM, at Duques Hall
    (Room 553D) on the GWU campus in Washington DC
  - We will be recapping and discussing AppSecDC and the OWASP Summit
  - We will discuss other recent events such as the DHS Software
    Assurance Forum Conference
  - We will be talking about the coming year and upcoming events
  - We will open up the floor for discussion of current events or
    concerns.

**Addition to Agenda**

Dan Philpott and several others in and around OWASP DC are working on an
OWASP effort to contribute to the NIST draft standard 800-37, Guide for
the Security Certification and Accreditation of Federal Information
Systems.

After our normal meeting agenda, I am going to turn the space over to
Dan, so that he can explain what he and his group are up to, and hold a
brief discussion in our space. Any and all who are interested in this
process or contributing to government security policy are welcome to
stick around and observe or contribute.

**September 2009 Meeting**

  - The meeting was held at [September 2nd at 6:30 PM, at Duques Hall
    (Room 553D) on the GWU campus in Washington
    DC](http://upcoming.yahoo.com/event/4344425/)
  - Matthew Flick and Jeff Yestrumskas will give an encore of their talk
    on the Cross-Site Scripting Anonymous Browsers (XAB) that they have
    previously presented at Black Hat and at Defcon.
  - Doug Wilson talking about the recent launch of the AppSec DC 2009
    website, and what's going on with the conference.

**XAB -- The Abstract:**

Earlier this year, the Cross-site Scripting Anonymous Browser (“XAB”)
was presented at Black Hat DC as a new perspective on how we could
extend the functionality of browser technologies, form dynamic botnets
for browsing, and create an unpronounceable acronym all at once. We
continued the madness with a second incarnation of the XAB framework at
Defcon in August.

XAB hasn't really revolutionized attacks or defenses in it's short
lifespan, nor is it great at factoring primes. However, it has opened
minds by demonstrating an interesting way to combine unlike ideas and
creating a new animal all of it's own. Think of it as forced social
networking, without ever really knowing who you're talking to, or what
they're saying.

During this presentation, we will explain the origins of the concept,
provide a brief review of the technologies, pour over the trials and
tribulations of the enhancements and additions of the past 6 months,
provide a live demonstration of the improvements, and continue the
conversation about the future of the framework.

**About our speakers:**

**Matthew Flick, Principal** **FYRM Associates**

Matt has more than seven years of professional experience in information
assurance focusing in network and application security, assessments, and
compliance. He has assessed and helped develop information assurance
programs for commercial clients in several industries as well as several
Federal agencies.

Matt leads the Information Assurance team at FYRM Associates in
delivering consulting services in the areas of application security,
assessments, network and wireless security, and security program
development. He has performed assessments of many in-house and
commercial/third party developed applications, wired and wireless
network infrastructures, and complex corporate environments. His primary
area of expertise is in application security, which drives much of the
focus of FYRM's Information Assurance research and development.

Matt’s other areas of expertise include computer programming,
cryptology, and compliance with Federal standards and regulatory
compliance, such as FISMA, HIPAA, Sarbanes-Oxley, and PCI-DSS.

**Jeff Yestrumskas** **Sr. Manager InfoSec @ Cvent**

Jeff Yestrumskas is in charge of information security for an
international application service provider, but still enjoys getting his
hands dirty. His professional background spanning over a decade includes
forensics, leading penetration tests, application security services and
teaching others to do the same.

**August 2009 Meeting**

  - The meeting was held at [August 5th at 6:30 PM, at Duques Hall
    (Room 553D) on the GWU campus in Washington
    DC](http://upcoming.yahoo.com/event/4129351/)
  - **Dan Cornell** of the Denim Group spoke on Vulnerability Management
    in an Application Security World
  - **Mike Smith** of Deloitte spoke on SCAP and how it can relate to
    web application security.
  - **Doug Wilson** gave an update on [AppSecDC
    2009](OWASP_AppSec_DC_2009 "wikilink")

About our speakers:

  -
    **Dan Cornell** has over twelve years of experience architecting and
    developing web-based software systems. He leads Denim Group's
    security research team in investigating the application of secure
    coding and development techniques to improve web-based software
    development methodologies.

<!-- end list -->

  -
    Dan was the founding coordinator and chairman for the Java Users
    Group of San Antonio (JUGSA) and currently serves as the OWASP San
    Antonio chapter leader, member of the OWASP Global Membership
    Committee and co-lead of the OWASP Open Review Project. Dan has
    spoken at such international conferences as ROOTs in Norway and
    OWASP EU Summit in Portugal.

<!-- end list -->

  -
    **Vulnerability Management in an Application Security World**

<!-- end list -->

  -
    This presentation outlines strategies security teams can use for
    communicating with development teams to manage and ultimately
    correct application-level vulnerabilities. Similarities and
    differences between the security practice of vulnerability
    management and the development practice of defect management are
    also addressed.

<!-- end list -->

  -
    **Michael Smith** is a manager in Deloitte's Security and Privacy
    Practice. His current engagement is as an Information System
    Security Officer working with a government agency integrating
    embedded devices with a web application command and control system.
    He blogs at <http://www.guerilla-ciso.com/> and covers security
    management, public policy, regulations and laws, and technical
    solutions.

<!-- end list -->

  -
    SCAP is the Security Content Automation Protocol, a set of XML
    schemas designed to automate information security flows between
    vulnerability, patch management, and data center automation tools.
    Michael will be giving us an introduction to SCAP and its
    applicability to web application security with a call to action to
    make web application security products and processes compatible with
    SCAP.

**April Meeting Debrief**

We'd like to thank Jon Rose for speaking, and showing us his Deblaze
tool in action. His presentation will be up on the wiki shortly. If you
want it before then, please email doug.wilson AT owasp for a copy.

Our big announcement of the meeting was that we are kicking off the
[Call for Papers for AppSec DC
2009](OWASP_AppSec_US_2009_-_Washington_DC "wikilink"), slated for
November 10-13 at the DC Convention Center.

We'd also like to thank:

  - George Washington University and their great staff for the meeting
    space and A/V support
  - Securicon and Mark Bristow for arranging refreshements.

We hope to announce something about our next meeting soon, and if you
want to volunteer for the conference, join our [mailing
list](https://lists.owasp.org/mailman/listinfo/appsec_us_09)\!

'''April 22nd 6:30 PM OWASP Meeting, Washington DC

This month we will be holding our meeting at The George Washington
University in downtown DC.

The meeting will be held in Room 650 D on the 6th floor of Duques Hall
at the George Washington University at [2201 G St. NW Washington,
DC 20037](http://maps.google.com/maps?hl=en&q=2201+G+St.+NW+Washington,+DC+20037)

This month, we will have Jon Rose speaking about Flash Remoting and
[Deblaze](http://deblaze-tool.appspot.com/).

> Deblaze - A remote method enumeration tool for flex servers.

> Flash applications can make request to a remote server to call server
> side functions, such as looking up accounts, retrieving additional
> data and graphics, and performing complex business operations.
> However, the ability to call remote methods also increases the attack
> surface exposed by these applications. Deblaze was developed in order
> to perform method enumeration and interrogation against flash remoting
> end points.

> This talk will provide a basic overview of Flash remoting and cover
> some of the security issues found in real-world flash applications and
> demonstrate a new tool for testing flash applications.

> The latest version can be found at
> [deblaze-tool.appspot.com](http://deblaze-tool.appspot.com)

Doug Wilson will also discuss the recent [OWASP Software Assurance
Day](http://www.owasp.org/index.php/OWASP_Software_Assurance_Day_DC_2009)
that took place at Mitre in March, and discuss some of the recent
milestones that OWASP has hit with maturing and evolving projects.

We will also have a few copies of the new OWASP Live CD to hand out,
first come, first serve.

You can RSVP for the event on
[Upcoming.org](http://upcoming.yahoo.com/event/2385625/)

*Note on Transportation and Parking*

Parking on campus is at a premium and visitors are encouraged to use
public transportation when visiting the campus. The nearest METRO stop,
Foggy Bottom/GWU located on the Orange/Blue lines, is a short 3 block
walk from the Marvin Center

The Marvin Center Garage operates from 7am - midnight Monday through
Friday and is closed on weekends. Make sure you have your car out by
11:45pm. A visitor's parking garage is located between 23rd and 22nd
Streets and H and Eye Streets. The visitor entrance is on Eye Street.

**February 5th 6:30 PM OWASP Meeting, Washington DC**

This month we will be holding our meeting at The George Washington
University in downtown DC.

The meeting is in Duques Hall, Room 553, which is located at [2201 G St.
NW Washington,
DC 20037](http://maps.google.com/maps?hl=en&q=2201+G+St.+NW+Washington,+DC+20037)

This month's agenda:

  - 6:30 - 6:45 Introductions and OWASP Business - Mark Bristow
  - 6:45 - 7:45 WAF Virtual Patching Challenge: Securing WebGoat with
    ModSecurity - Ryan Barnett
  - 7:45 - 8:00 Break
  - 8:00 - 9:00 Software Assurance Maturity Model (SAMM) - Pravir
    Chandra

You can RSVP for the event on Upcoming.org:
<http://upcoming.yahoo.com/event/1494008>

*Note on Transportation and Parking*

Parking on campus is at a premium and visitors are encouraged to use
public transportation when visiting the campus. The nearest METRO stop,
Foggy Bottom/GWU located on the Orange/Blue lines, is a short 3 block
walk from the Marvin Center

The Marvin Center Garage operates from 7am - midnight Monday through
Friday and is closed on weekends. Make sure you have your car out by
11:45pm. A visitor's parking garage is located between 23rd and 22nd
Streets and H and Eye Streets. The visitor entrance is on Eye Street.

**December Meeting Debrief**

I'd like to take this opportunity to once again thank Kevin for coming
out to talk to us at the meeting Wednesday. I thought his presentation
on Samurai, Yokoso\!, Laudanum, and Social butterfly demonstrated some
of the great up and coming tools that are available to the community. As
promised, I uploaded the PDF of the presentationto the Wiki, but the
slides don't do the commentary justice. It can be found
[here](https://www.owasp.org/index.php/Image:OWASP_DC_--_Web_Attack_Tools.pdf).

We also took care of some housekeeping stuff:

  - We'd like to thank Mike from Deloitte for offering up his space the
    last few months but our next meeting will instead be held at George
    Washington University Gelman Library. Everyone remember to thank Amy
    for offering up GW's meeting spaces to us.
  - The OWASP DC Chapter will be hosting [OWASP
    AppSec 2009](https://www.owasp.org/index.php/OWASP_AppSec_US_2009_-_Washington_DC)
    sometime in October 09. More details will come out as we firm up
    dates/speakers/locations and calls for volunteers\!
  - Rex talked for a few minutes about the Portugal Summit. The debrief
    from the summit can be found
    [here](http://www.owasp.org/index.php/OWASP_EU_Summit_2008)
  - Our next chapter meeting will be held in Feburary, topics TBD but we
    are [soliciting speakers](mailto:mark.bristow__AT___owasp.org).

To those who attended the meeting on Wednesday, thanks for coming out,
we had a great turnout and I hope to have even more attendees next time.
For those who were unable to attend, I hope to see you all at our next
meeting.

**December 10th 6:30pm OWASP Meeting, Washington DC**

This month we will be holding our meeting at the DC offices of [Deloitte
& Touche](http://www.deloitte.com/) ([1001 G St NW Washington
DC 20001](http://maps.google.com/maps?f=q&hl=en&geocode=&q=1001+G+ST+NW+washington+dc)).

The meeting will start at 1830. Upon arriving, please go to the 9th
floor and sign in, someone will escort you to the meeting location, Rm.
8S026. If you are late and can not get in, please call 202.270.8715.

This month's agenda is as follows:

  - Presentation by Kevin Johnson, InGuardians
  - Round table Discussion of Portugal Summit
  - Open discussion

Kevin Johnson is a Senior Security Analyst with InGuardians. Kevin came
to security from a development and system administration background. He
has many years of experience performing security services for fortune
100 companies, and contributes to a large number of open source security
projects. Kevin founded and leads the development on B.A.S.E., Samurai,
SecTools and Yokoso\! projects.

Kevin is an instructor for SANS, authoring and teaching Security 542,
Web Application Pen-Testing In-Depth and teaching other SANS classes
such as the Incident Handling and Hacker Techniques class. He has
presented to many organizations, including InfraGard, ISACA, ISSA and
the University of Florida.

You can RSVP to the event on Upcoming.org:

<http://upcoming.yahoo.com/event/1334575>

**October 15th 6:30pm OWASP Meeting, Washington DC**

This month we will be holding our meeting at the DC offices of [Deloitte
& Touche](http://www.deloitte.com/) ([1001 G St NW Washington
DC 20001](http://maps.google.com/maps?f=q&hl=en&geocode=&q=1001+G+ST+NW+washington+dc)).

The meeting will start at 1830. Upon arriving, please go to the 9th
floor and sign in, someone will escort you to the meeting location, Rm.
8S026. If you are late and can not get in, please call 202.270.8715.

This month's agenda is as follows:

  - Adam Vincent, Hacking and Hardening Web Services
  - Doug Wilson, Report on AppSec NYC 2008
  - Open discussion

Adam Vincent will be presenting on Hacking and Hardening Web Services.
He has presented this to other OWASP chapters, including NoVa, and we
are pleased to have him be able to bring it to our DC audience.

Doug Wilson will also be reporting back from the OWASP AppSec NYC 2008
conference. He will cover some of the themes that emerged from that, and
talk about some of the directions that OWASP is looking to take in the
coming year.

# History

The original DC Chapter was founded in June 2004 by [Jeff
Williams](mailto:jeff.williams\(at\)owasp.org) and has had members from
Virginia to Delaware.

In April 2005 a new chapter, DC-Virginia, was formed and the DC Chapter
was renamed to DC-Maryland.

In 2008, the DC-Maryland chapter was given over to the stewardship of
co-chairs Rex Booth, Mark Bristow, and Doug Wilson, and charged by the
OWASP board to create a chapter focused on the needs of Washington DC in
specific. The new chapter has tried to reach out to government and
academic environments found in DC as well as the private sector.

The DC chapter will be hosting OWASP AppSec DC in November of 2009, the
national OWASP conference for the year.

<headertabs />




<paypal>Washington DC</paypal>



September Meeting:

Facility Sponsor: [UberOffices](http://www.uberoffices.com)     
Refreshment Sponsor: Still Open\!




[Category:OWASP Chapter](Category:OWASP_Chapter "wikilink")
[Category:Washington, DC](Category:Washington,_DC "wikilink")
[Category:Maryland](Category:Maryland "wikilink")