<center>

**Congratulations to Helen Gao winner of the 2012 WASPY Award**

</center>

<center>

![<File:Helen_Gao_Profile_Picture.jpg>‎](Helen_Gao_Profile_Picture.jpg‎
"File:Helen_Gao_Profile_Picture.jpg‎")

</center>

<center>

Helen received a certificate, a $1000 gift card, an ipad and a trophy

</center>

<center>

**We also would like to congratulate the rest of the finalists of the
2012 WASPY Awards**

</center>

![<File:Kostas_Papapanagiotou_Profile_Picture.jpg>](Kostas_Papapanagiotou_Profile_Picture.jpg
"File:Kostas_Papapanagiotou_Profile_Picture.jpg") Kostas Papapanagiotou
![<File:Simon_Bennetts_Profile_Picture.jpg>‎](Simon_Bennetts_Profile_Picture.jpg‎
"File:Simon_Bennetts_Profile_Picture.jpg‎") Simon Bennetts
![<File:Ryan_Barnett_Profile_Picture.jpg>](Ryan_Barnett_Profile_Picture.jpg
"File:Ryan_Barnett_Profile_Picture.jpg")Ryan Barnett
![<File:Gustavo_Barbato_Profile_Picture.jpg>‎](Gustavo_Barbato_Profile_Picture.jpg‎
"File:Gustavo_Barbato_Profile_Picture.jpg‎") Gustavo Barbato
![<File:Israel_Bryski_Profile_Picture.jpg>‎](Israel_Bryski_Profile_Picture.jpg‎
"File:Israel_Bryski_Profile_Picture.jpg‎") Israel Bryski
![<File:Cassio_Goldschmidt_Prfile_Picture.jpg>](Cassio_Goldschmidt_Prfile_Picture.jpg
"File:Cassio_Goldschmidt_Prfile_Picture.jpg") Cassio Goldschmidt
![<File:Charles_Henderson_Profile_Picture.jpg>](Charles_Henderson_Profile_Picture.jpg
"File:Charles_Henderson_Profile_Picture.jpg") Charles Henderson
![<File:Kees_Leune_Profile_Picture.jpg>](Kees_Leune_Profile_Picture.jpg
"File:Kees_Leune_Profile_Picture.jpg")Dr. Kees Leune
![<File:Breno_Silva_Pinto_Profile_Picture.jpg>](Breno_Silva_Pinto_Profile_Picture.jpg
"File:Breno_Silva_Pinto_Profile_Picture.jpg") Breno Silva Pinto

<center>

Please see [WASPY Award 2012
Candidates](WASPY_Award_2012_Candidates "wikilink") for information
about each finalist

</center>

<center>

<span style="color:red"><font size="5">**Sponsors**</font></span>

<font size="6">**Platinum**</font>

<font size="6">**Silver**</font>

</center>

**Attention: All Chapter/Project Leaders**

Every year a group of individuals including researchers, developers,
security professionals and others work to ensure the security of web
applications. Some of these individuals are featured in news stories or
at conferences as recognized experts. But there are many other ‘unsung
heroes’ that work every day to improve web application security and yet
are rarely recognized.

This year OWASP will initiate the first annual Web Application Security
Person of the Year (WASPY) award. There will be awards for WASPY winners
at the chapter or project, finalist and global levels. Each Chapter or
Project who participates will have the opportunity to nominate 1 WASPY
candidate from their Chapter or Project to represent them in the final
vote. The OWASP board will review the profiles of the chapter/project
level winners and will then select 5 Global finalists. The Global WASPY
winner will be announced at the Global AppSec North America conference
in Austin, TX in October. Winners at each level will be recognized on
the OWASP website and receive a gift in addition to the award.

**Guidelines that will be used to select WASPY winners are:**
Individuals should be involved in web application security in some
meaningful way, ie: they may be involved in projects or supporting the
chapter or involved in volunteering time for awareness campaigns.
Individuals should be well known for supporting local OWASP or other web
application security efforts. Individuals that not only support local
efforts but also contribute time to OWASP projects or other
national/international efforts to improve web application security
should be given additional consideration/credit. We encourage nominators
to look broadly at the field to identify potential unsung heroes in
addition to well-known industry speakers and pundits.

**Here is how the process will work:**

All Chapters/Projects that would like to participate in the WASPY Award,
must contact Kelly Santalucia via kelly.santalucia@owasp.org by
September 1, 2012.

Only Chapters/Projects who have contacted Kelly by September 1, 2012
will be able to nominate 1 candidate to represent their chapter/project.
It is up to the Chapter/Project to determine how they would like to
select their candidate. Please reference our Chapter Handbook for
suggestions on Chapter Elections, and refer to the guidelines listed
above which will be used for the selection of the winners.

Once the Chapter/Project has selected a candidate, they must contact
Kelly Santalucia with the candidates name, his/her accomplishments and
provide an explanation as to why this person was chosen.
Chapters/Projects have until September 15 to submit this information.

**\*\*Each Chapter/Project must submit a candidate in order for the
chapter/project to be eligible to share in a percentage of any funds
raised beyond those used to support the awards.\*\***

September 20th - 28th the OWASP Board will vote for the top 5
candidates.

October 25 winners will be announced live at AppSec USA in Austin, TX

OWASP corporate supporters will sponsor the WASPY awards. In order to
participate Chapters/Projects must contact Kelly Santalucia
kelly.santalucia@owasp.org by September 1, 2012 AND submit a candidate
by September 15, 2012. Chapters/Projects who do not respond by September
1, 2012 will not be eligible to participate in 2012 but will be eligible
in future years. Chapters/Projects that submit a candidate will be
eligible to share in a percentage of any funds raised beyond those used
to support the awards. More information will be provided to the
participating chapters/projects on the awards, gifts and recognition for
winners at each level.

Interested in sponsoring the WASPY Awards? Please visit [Sponsorship
Information](https://www.owasp.org/index.php/WASPY_Award_2012_Sponsorship_Information)

[WASPY Award 2012 Candidates](WASPY_Award_2012_Candidates "wikilink")

[2012 WASPY Award
Finalists](https://www.owasp.org/index.php/WASPY_Award_2012_Finalists)