<center>

<span style="color:red"><font size="5">**Sponsors**</font></span>

<font size="6">**Platinum**</font>

Interested in sponsoring the WASPY Awards? Please visit [Sponsorship
Information](https://www.owasp.org/index.php/WASPY_Award_2012_Sponsorship_Information)

</center>

[2012 WASPY Award
Finalists](https://www.owasp.org/index.php/WASPY_Award_2012_Finalists)

**WASPY Award 2012 Candidates**

**Candidate:** Helen Gao

**Candidate Submitted By:** China Chapter

**Accomplishments:** Senior Architect,Global Membership Committee Chair,
One of Chinese Project leader,Long Island Chapter Leader, AppSec Asia
2011 organizer, etc...

**Why this person was chosen?:** Helen volunteered to OWASP since 2006
and contributed a lot for OWASP as a member of Global Membership
Committee and Long Island Chapter leaders. Also helen helped a lot for
Great China area as a leader of Chinese Project. Moreover she is one of
the main organizer for AppSec Asia 2011. Right now, Helen is the chair
of Global Membership Committee.

**Candidate:**Abbas Naderi Afooshteh

**Candidate Submitted By:**Iran Chapter

**Accomplishments:**Number 1 hacker in middle east, CEO of an
international InfoSec company, administered two information security
conferences in the region, leader of two OWASP projects and active
participant in more than 10, active member of International Secure
Software Engineering Council, lectured more than 20 courses, numerous
InfoSec PhD scholarships, and only 25 years old.

**Why this person was chosen?**Abbas has been an OWASP participant for
more than 5 years, spreading the word and knowledge as well as
participating in numerous projects such as ESAPI, ASVS, WebGoat, etc. He
has also ranked top on many CTFs around the world promoting OWASPs name,
along with translating many OWASP documents and presenting the original
and the translated version in plenty of workshops throughout the world.
Publishing many whitepapers and blog posts about information security on
his blog is his usual hobby. Moreover he has developed a lightweight
secure framework named jFramework which is powering more than 11000
webpages today. For GSoC 2012, three people directly contacted Abbas to
work with him on various PHP projects for OWASP but the projects were
not approved.

**Candidate:**Dr. Kees Leune

**Candidate Submitted By:**Long Island Chapter

**Accomplishments:**Dr. Leune stands out because he not only walks the
walk, but also talks the talk, in classrooms where future software
engineers are learning how to make the Internet a more secure place. Dr.
Leune is an information security officer at Adelphi University. He
practices OWASP everyday when he manages the network that service
thousands of students and staffs. He is also a professor at the
university and a trainer in other institutions. He teaches with
extensive coverage of OWASP.

**Why this person was chosen?**Dr. Leune has been a long time supporter
of OWASP. He organized several chapter meetings. He provided equipment
and meeting rooms. Dr. Leune is well regarded in the information
security field. Whenever he teaches, audience always leave with deep
admiration for him and knowledge they can use immediately. Dr. Leune
promotes OWASP whenever he could, for example at different conferences
including SOURCE Boston, EDUCAUSE/Internet2 and Security Professionals.

Dr. Leune is a confirmed OWASP member. Because of him, Adelphi became an
educational supporter of OWASP in 2010.

Please see [Dr. Leune's publication and
affiliation](https://docs.google.com/a/owasp.org/viewer?a=v&pid=gmail&attid=0.1&thid=139c1aaced5fc674&mt=application/vnd.openxmlformats-officedocument.wordprocessingml.document&url=https://mail.google.com/mail/u/0/?ui%3D2%26ik%3Df64bf2af68%26view%3Datt%26th%3D139c1aaced5fc674%26attid%)

**Candidate:**Simon Bennetts

**Candidate Submitted By:**Zed Attack Proxy Project
[1](https://www.owasp.org/index.php/ZAP)

**Accomplishments:**OWASP ZAP Founder and project leader, GSoC Mentor,
OWASP Manchester founder, international speaker

**Why this person was chosen?:**Simon started the OWASP Zed Attack Proxy
Project in 2010 and actively leads the international group of volunteers
who develop it. This summer he mentored 2 Google Summer of Code students
working on ZAP. He started the OWASP Manchester chapter and has
encouraged and supported the formation of the new East Midlands and
Newcastle chapters. Simon has talked about ZAP and OWASP at both
security and not security events around in Europe, America and
Australia. He is also involved in the OWASP Data Exchange Format and
AppSensor projects, started the Web Application Security Testing Cheat
Sheet and has contributed to other open source security projects such as
the BodgeIt Store and the Web Application Vulnerability Scanner
Evaluation Project (wavsep).

**Candidate:**Ryan Barnett

**Candidate Submitted By:**OWASP HTTP POST TOOL

**Accomplishments:**Ryan is a core developers on the OWASP CRS project
<https://www.owasp.org/index.php/Category:OWASP_ModSecurity_Core_Rule_Set_Project>

**Why this person was chosen?**When working on the HTTP POST TOOL we
made it available for testing to many organizations so that before we
released a tool that could be potentially malicious there were well
documented defensive approaches. Ryan Barnett was not only interested
from the initial presentation at OWASP AppSec DC 2010 but worked to
develop defensive methods for Mod_Security to educate and provide
assistance to the OWASP community members BEFORE it was released.

Ryan has been a long time contributor to the OWASP organization and
should be recognized formally for this outstanding volunteer service.

1\) Helped lead the effort to bring Mod_Security to the Microsoft IIS
platform and NGINX.

2\) Providing best practices and training for virtual patching processes
to mitigate vulns at conferences worldwide.

**Candidate:**Breno Silva Pinto OWASP Brasilia Chapter Leader

**Candidate Submitted By:**OWASP ModSecurity Core Rule Set (CRS) Project

**Accomplishments:**Breno added many important features to ModSecurity
to help prevent web-based attacks:

  - Prevention of HTTP Slow Request/Read DoS Attacks
  - HMAC Token Protection to help prevent parameter tampering, directory
    traversals and cross-site request forgery attacks.
  - Data Substitution Capabilities to modify content to remove data
    leakages and malicious payloads.
  - Software Security with Federal Government

**Why this person was chosen?** Breno is the core developer of the
hugely popular open source ModSecurity web application firewall project
- <http://www.modsecurity.org/>. Breno is a passionate application
software defender in Brazil that has greatly helped the owasp community
worldwide with his contributions and presentations at conference.

**Candidate:**Israel Bryski

**Candidate Submitted By:**NYC Chapter

**Accomplishments:**Israel is a volunteer to the OWASP NYC Chapter that
brings his experiences, connections and passion for community to help
OWASP Foundation at a local level.

**Why this person was chosen?**From management of the call for papers of
the local chapter to helping with set-up and break down of meetings. Its
volunteers that make OWASP happen and Israel is one of the people that
make it happen with less words and more action.

**Candidate:** Joan Hardy

**Candidate Submitted By:**NJ Chapter

**Accomplishments:** Joan Hardy is a volunteer of the OWASP New Jersey
Chapter. She has assisted with the recruitment of speakers, venues and
was the lead on a study group focused on application security.

**Why this person was chosen?** Volunteers such as Joan who have also
worked extremely close with people such as Peter Dean and Tom Ryan on
fostering results.

**Candidate:** Charles Henderson

**Candidate Submitted By:** OWASP RFP Project
<https://www.owasp.org/index.php/OWASP_RFP-Criteria>

**Accomplishments:** This OWASP effort has been adopted by numerous
organizations worldwide to help them meet their contracting needs when
procuring application security services.

**Why this person was chosen?**Project contributor

**Candidate:** Gustavo Barbato

**Candidate Submitted By:** FHR project

**Accomplishments:** chaired the AppSec Latam 2011 conference and lead
expansion the chapter base in Brazil. The number of chapters more than
doubled since he started pushing this initiative.

**Why this person was chosen?:** Hard work done to expand and
consolidate OWASP.

**Candidate:**Kostas Papapanagiotou

**Candidate Submitted By:**Greek Chapter

**Accomplishments:**Kostas has proved to be an essential member of OWASP
both in Greece and globally.

He started as board member for that OWASP chapter in early 2004 and even
as a board member he managed to lead the Greek translation effort,
organise chapter meetings, be the editor of Greek chapter's blog and
newsletters(one of the first globally owasp newsletters) and even
promote OWASP in local news outlets such as the National Television.

Kostas is now and for the past 4 years the Greek Chapter OWASP leader.

**Why this person was chosen?:**Continuing and increasing his enthusiasm
for OWASP and web application security even more, Kostas started to
involve different departments from the Greek government into web
application security. In 2011 he managed to organise an OWASP training
day at the Greek General Secretariat of Information Systems with great
success for both owasp and web application security in Greece.
<https://www.owasp.org/index.php/Greece/Training/OWASP_projects_and_resources_you_can_use_TODAY>)

In parallel Kostas was promoting OWASP and application security in
Universities and other academic organisations with great success and
enthusiasm. Eventually he created and now co-leads the OWASP hackademic
challenges project
(https://www.owasp.org/index.php/OWASP_Hackademic_Challenges_Project),
which is a global owasp project in promoting application security within
academia. **Bold text** It is worth noting that Hackademic challenges
was also successfully selected by GSOC as one of the OWASP projects to
be funded
(http://lists.owasp.org/pipermail/owasp-hackademic-challenges/2012-April/000020.html)

In addition to the above Kostas has promoted OWASP with every
opportunity he gets. He has promoted OWASP at Athens Digital Week, Greek
FOSS conferences, E-Business Forum and Greek Magazines and many more.

More recently Kostas organised with great success the Global OWASP
Appsec EU conference in Athens. This conference was certainly one of the
biggest international conferences to be organised in Greece and one of
the biggest annual events organised by OWASP. Kostas once more proved
that he is capable both to manage, organise and also promote web
application security in a global level.

As the committee of the Greek OWASP chapter we certainly believe that
Kostas Papapanagiotou is one of the most globally valuable members of
the OWASP community and he is also one of the biggest Web Application
Security voices within the Greek community.

**Candidate:** Cassio Goldschmidt

**Candidate Submitted By:** Los Angeles Chapter

**Accomplishments:**Founder of Los Angeles chapter and president till
Dec 2009

Los Angeles board member 2010-2012

Co-Chair AppSec USA 2010

Global Conferences Committee 2011

Chair (or Co-Chair) AppSec Brazil 2011

Founding father of many chapters in Brazil

Professional summary: Cassio Goldschmidt is a globally recognized
application security leader with strong background in both product and
program-level security. Outside work, Cassio is known for his
contributions to Open Web Application Security Project (OWASP), Software
Assurance Forum for Excellence in Code (SAFECode), the Common Weakness
Enumeration(CWE)/SysAdmin, Audit, Network, Security (SANS) Top 25 Most
Dangerous Software Errors, along with contributing to the security
education curriculum of numerous universities and helping to create
International Information Systems Security Certification
Consortium(ISC)2’s Certified Secure Software Lifecycle Professional
(CSSLP)certification. Cassio was one of the three finalist in the first
(ISC)² Americas Information Security Leadership (ISLA) Awards 2011 in
the Information Security Practitioner category and endowed with the
special Community Service Star award during the same occasion. Cassio
holds a number of US patents and is an accomplished writer and presenter
in the field of application security.

**Why this person was chosen?**Cassio exemplifies what OWASP is about --
impressive professional accomplishments, countless contributions to
software security and selfless volunteerism. Cassio's contributions to
OWASP has made chapters in Los Angeles and Brazil started and
successful, and OWASP stronger as a community. Although Cassio has
resigned from volunteer positions at OWASP, his efforts must not be
forgotten.

**Candidate:** V.Vasanthkumar

**Candidate Submitted By:** OWASP Xelenium Project

**Accomplishments:**Project Leader of OWASP Xelenium Project, Conceived,
Designed, Developed and Tested the project single handedly.

**Why this person was chosen?** I would like to self nominate me for
this award. As I am the only person who works on this initiative, this
award would help me ascertain that my efforts are put in right direction
and also would help me in garnering the support and guidance from fellow
OWASP members. Also, Vasanth is not a security specialist and works as a
full time test automation engineer. He learns about the security testing
vulnerabilities in his free time and designs the automation strategy to
identify them.

Xelenium is an automated solution that helps to identify security
vulnerabilities present in the web application. First published in the
month of June 2012, this solution has been downloaded for more than 5000
times till now. Current version helps in identifying the cross site
scripting threats. In the subsequent versions, Xelenium will be enhanced
to include other security vulnerabilities.