## **Web standards and specifications**

The current article will present a high level overview of the various
standards being used in web-applications; which of these are current or
outdated, and more importantly which of the standards will be useful in
implementing a particular type of application. Basically, it will help
in understanding the various W3C, WS-I and other web application
standards, and find relevance for them in the applications that we
design and develop.

This article is aimed at developers and architects to make effective
choices in designing and implementing robust, useful and secure web
applications.

Some primary web standards bodies are:

<http://www.ietf.org/home.html>

<http://www.w3.org/>

<http://www.ws-i.org/>

<http://www.oasis-open.org/who/tab.php>

<http://www.omg.org/>

## **Introduction**

Standards are what will make development of inter-operable web
applications faster; but there are so many of them, that it could also
make development slower.

Current list of standards will easily equal many hundreds, and is
increasing at a scorching pace; and we can only hope, in time,
application library developers can wrap all these behind very easy to
use objects and interfaces. Standards generally remain incomprehensible
to a general developer. No doubt, for power applications, developers
will still need to pour over specifications and design/develop their
application code to implement the best possible solution; but majority
of the developers will need to rely on the ingenuity of the library
developers to make the standards based applications accessible and
usable. In either case, knowledge of the underlying specifications will
help in overall understanding of the application architecture and
improving implementations. This article aims to serve as first step in
that direction.

**Internet Engineering Task Force (http://www.ietf.org/home.html)** -
One of the primary bodies involved in the development of core internet
standards, e.g. networking, routing, mail etc. Their scope is pretty
wide, everything “above the wire and below the application”, as
described by "Scott Bradner" in "<http://edu.ietf.org/node/view/55>"
article. Some of the important contributions include: IP, TCP, HTTP,
FTP, VPN, LDAP, Telnet, POP3, and many more. Further, in his
presentation, Scott describes the scope of other "Standards Development
Organisations" (SDOs), as primarily involved in extending and fixing
IETF standards, which is correct, as we shall see later in the article.

A sister organisation is www.irtf.org, which is fixed on defining the
future of internet standards.

They even have a education page: <http://edu.ietf.org>

All the current and older internet standards published by IETF can be
found at: <http://www.rfc-editor.org/rfcxx00.html>

One interesting fact about an RFC document is that once published it
never get revised; it is obsoleted by another RFC. Internet drafts are
used to refer to documents that are in the making and may eventually
become an RFC. RFC stands for 'Request for Comments' and they may or may
not be a standard; but they are the main technical documentation series
of the IETF.

**World Wide Web Consortium, W3C (http://www.w3.org/)**

W3C has published around 90 recommendations (W3C standards are called
recommedations) for web protocols. A diagram of the technology stack of
W3C standards can be viewed at:
<http://www.w3.org/Consortium/technology>

W3C also posts tutorials for their standards, which can be found at:
<http://www.w3.org/2002/03/tutorials>

**Web services interoperability organisation, WS-I
(http://www.ws-i.org/)**

**Organization for the Advancement of Structured Information Standards,
OASIS (http://www.oasis-open.org/who/tab.php)**

**The Object Management Group, OMG (http://www.omg.org/)**

**Industry guides**

Following is a list of useful technology links dealing with network
technologies and standards:

<http://www.cisco.com/univercd/cc/td/doc/cisintwk/ito_doc/index.htm>

## **Network Standards/Protocols**

## **WWW family of Standards**

## **Web Service Standards**

## **Standards for non-textual data transfer**

This section will deal with the various media data transfer that happen
over internet protocol for non-textual data, i.e. binary data, voice
packets, images and other media.

## **Security specific standards and recommendations**

**IETF** has many RFC documents which provide useful security
information (http://www.ietf.org/rfc.html). Some of them are listed
below; not all of them are relevant or current, but they do provide
interesting information regarding the growth of security specific
standards and recommendations.

RFC1108 - U.S. Department of Defense Security Options for the Internet
Protocol

RFC2196 - Site Security Handbook

RFC2222 - Simple Authentication and Security Layer

RFC2323 - IETF Identification and Security Guidelines

RFC2401 - Security Architecture for the Internet Protocol

RFC2411 - IP Security Document Roadmap

RFC2504 - Users' Security Handbook

RFC2828 - Internet Security Glossary

RFC3365 - Strong Security Requirements for Internet Engineering Task
Force Standard Protocols

RFC3414 - User-based Security Model (USM) for version 3 of the Simple
Network Management Protocol (SNMPv3)

RFC3631 - Security Mechanisms for the Internet

RFC3871 - Operational Security Requirements for Large Internet Service
Provider (ISP) IP Network Infrastructure

RFC4033 - DNS Security Introduction and Requirements

RFC4251 - The Secure Shell (SSH) Protocol Architecture

RFC4301 - Security Architecture for the Internet Protocol

Some of the interesting and useful recommendations would be discussed
below:

*to do...*

**W3C** have a security FAQ and information page, which has links to
popular internet security standards:

<http://www.w3.org/Security/>

<http://www.w3.org/Security/faq/www-security-faq.html>

**other security related links**

<http://www.cisco.com/c/en/us/td/docs/internetworking/technology/handbook/ito_doc.html>

## **References**

[Category:Implementation](Category:Implementation "wikilink")
[Category:Design](Category:Design "wikilink")
[Category:Architecture](Category:Architecture "wikilink")
[Category:Planning](Category:Planning "wikilink") [Category:Security
Architecture](Category:Security_Architecture "wikilink")
[Category:Security
Requirements](Category:Security_Requirements "wikilink")