[AppSec
DC 2012](https://www.owasp.org/index.php/OWASP_AppSec_DC_2012/Training/WebAppSec:_Developing_Secure_Web_Applications)

AppSec USA 2011 - Course Sold out

AppSec DC 2010 - see below

-----

![468x60-banner-2010.gif](468x60-banner-2010.gif
"468x60-banner-2010.gif")

[Registration](https://guest.cvent.com/EVENTS/Register/IdentityConfirmation.aspx?e=d52c6f5f-d568-4e16-b8e0-b5e2bf87ab3a)
|
[Hotel](https://resweb.passkey.com/Resweb.do?mode=welcome_gi_new&groupID=2766908)
| [Walter E. Washington Convention
Center](http://www.dcconvention.com/)
__NOTOC__

## Description

**Course Length: 1 Day**

Web applications are the new frontier of wide‐spread security breaches.
This tutorial will guide through development practices to ensure the
security and integrity of web applications, in turn protecting user data
and the infrastructure the application runs on. Several attack types and
risks will be reviewed (including OWASP’s Top 10), along with how the
proper development practices can mitigate their damage. Although
examples covered are PHP‐based, much of the content is also applicable
to other languages.

This will be an updated, encore presentation of last year’s well
received course. Following are quotes from prior *WebAppSec.php*
attendees:

  -

      -
        *"Presented in a very structured format. Instructor knew his
        stuff. Good presentations."*

<!-- end list -->

  -

      -
        *"Very knowledgeable\! Covered a lot of topics in a limited
        amount of time"*

<!-- end list -->

  -

      -
        *"The presenter was excellent. He didn't present an overload of
        information. The day went very quickly and I am leaving with a
        lot of valuable information"*

<!-- end list -->

  -

      -
        *"The slides were excellent - full of good code examples and
        explanations"*

<!-- end list -->

  -

      -
        *"Material that was presented was presented and covered well.
        Instructor is very knowledgeable"*

<!-- end list -->

  -

      -
        *"Handouts & presentation well organized & coordinated"*

All course registrants will receive printed materials and a certificate
of completion which may be used for documenting CPE credits.

## Student Requirements

None

## Objectives

Skill: Any - some knowledge of web development will be helpful

Attendees will gain the knowledge required to develop secure web
applications, along with an understanding of various attack types
against web apps and how they are mitigated by the proper coding
techniques. The main learning objectives are:

1.  Developing the skills for securely coding web applications
2.  Reviewing existing web vulnerabilities and their impact
3.  Understanding how the proper development techniques mitigates known
    and some unknown web vulnerabilities

## Instructor

**Instructor: Robert Zakon** Robert Zakon is a technology consultant and
developer who has been programming web applications since the Web's
infancy. In addition to developing web applications for web sites
receiving millions of daily hits, he works with organizations in an
interim CTO capacity, and advises corporations, non‐profits and
government agencies on technology, information, and security
architecture and infrastructure. Robert is a former Principal Engineer
with MITRE's Information Security Center, CTO of an Internet consumer
portal and application service provider, and Director of a university
research lab. He is a Senior Member of the IEEE, and holds BS & MS
degrees from Case Western Reserve University in Computer Engineering &
Science with concentrations in Philosophy & Psychology. His interests
are diverse and can be explored at [www.Zakon.org](http://www.Zakon.org)
where his vitae is available.

[Category:OWASP
Training/AppSec_DC_2010](Category:OWASP_Training/AppSec_DC_2010 "wikilink")
[Category:OWASP
Training/Basic](Category:OWASP_Training/Basic "wikilink")