## The presentation

![Owasp_logo_normal.jpg](Owasp_logo_normal.jpg
"Owasp_logo_normal.jpg")Web 2.0 - love it or hate it, the technology
driving the highly interactive web experience is in your browser and
coming to your enterprise. Securing Web 2.0 requires extraordinary means
due to the increased attack surface, new breed of "Web 2.0 developers"
and increased visibility of sites and applications. Understanding the
risks associated with Web 2.0 and beyond is essential to building "less
risky" web applications into the next phase of the web. This talk
focuses on how 2 prevalent technologies; AJAX and Adobe Flash\!, create
the potential for catastrophic failure. Focus is given to understanding
each technology's attack surface, most common security failures, and
exploitation of common coding mistakes. This workshop-style walk-through
of the Web 2.0's ugly underbelly will give participants a deeper
understanding of why security professionals are terrified of "highly
interactive web technologies" and why we say that "everything old is new
again".

## The speaker

Senior Security Consultant with Hewlett-Packard's Application Security
Center (ASC), Rafal Los has more than thirteen years of experience in
network and system design, security policy and process design, risk
analysis, penetration testing, and consulting. For the past eight years,
he has focused on information security and risk management, leading
security architecture teams, and managing successful enterprise security
programs for General Electric and other Fortune 100 companies, as well
as SMB enterprises. Previously, Rafal spent three years in-house with GE
Consumer Finance, leading its web application security programs.

[Category:OWASP_AppSec_DC_09](Category:OWASP_AppSec_DC_09 "wikilink")
[Category:OWASP_Conference_Presentations](Category:OWASP_Conference_Presentations "wikilink")