![468x60-banner-2010.gif](468x60-banner-2010.gif
"468x60-banner-2010.gif")

[Registration](https://guest.cvent.com/EVENTS/Register/IdentityConfirmation.aspx?e=d52c6f5f-d568-4e16-b8e0-b5e2bf87ab3a)
|
[Hotel](https://resweb.passkey.com/Resweb.do?mode=welcome_gi_new&groupID=2766908)
| [Walter E. Washington Convention
Center](http://www.dcconvention.com/)
\== The presentation ==

![Casey_Ari.JPG](Casey_Ari.JPG "Casey_Ari.JPG")IBMâ€™s Lotus Domino is a
unique server platform which requires a unique procedure for both black
and white box testing. Many standard attacks such as SQL injection are
simply not possible with Domino, although at the same time many other,
often more dangerous attacks are possible. A perusal of the commonly
used tools reveals that there is very limited coverage of the attacks
which are unique to Domino, and very little literature seems to exist.
This paper seems to present the background information on how Domino
works, as well as the framework for Domino specific black and whitebox
testing.

## The speakers

**Ari Elias-Bachrach**

Ari is a CISSP and CEH. He has a BS in computer science from Washington
University in St. Louis, and a MS in computer science with a focus on
information security from The George Washington University. Previously
he worked for the federal government, followed by a stint in the private
sector as a consultant performing external penetration testing and web
application reviews. Now he works as an in-house information security
engineer focusing on web applications.

**Casey Pike**

Casey is a IBM Certified Advanced System Administrator and an MSCA+. He
has a BS in information sciences from the University of Maryland,
College Park. After consulting for the federal government and private
firms designing and building Lotus Domino environments, he works as an
in-house systems engineer for a cooperative financial institution.

[Category:AppSec_DC_2010_Presentations](Category:AppSec_DC_2010_Presentations "wikilink")
[Category:OWASP_Conference_Presentations](Category:OWASP_Conference_Presentations "wikilink")