![468x60-banner-2010.gif](468x60-banner-2010.gif
"468x60-banner-2010.gif")

[Registration](https://guest.cvent.com/EVENTS/Register/IdentityConfirmation.aspx?e=d52c6f5f-d568-4e16-b8e0-b5e2bf87ab3a)
|
[Hotel](https://resweb.passkey.com/Resweb.do?mode=welcome_gi_new&groupID=2766908)
| [Walter E. Washington Convention
Center](http://www.dcconvention.com/)
\== The presentation ==

![Owasp_logo_normal.jpg](Owasp_logo_normal.jpg
"Owasp_logo_normal.jpg")The web application security field has seen a
large expansion in the last decade. In that time the amount of community
participation has significantly increased, however, efforts have become
increasingly discontigous.

Several web application security centric frameworks have come and gone
that were intended to address this challenge. The goal of Web
Exploitation Framework (wXf) is to take the experience of using these
tools, the perceived shortcomings and build something that is easy to
use, install and extend.

Web Exploitation Framework (“wXf”) is written in Ruby and was originally
an idea as a module for Rapid 7’s Metasploit but the idea quickly
outgrew a network exploitation framework. Instead, we designed a core
that focuses on the web standards along with exploits & payloads
designed specifically for defeating web application protections. wXf
maintains somewhat of the look and feel of Metasploit but the code is
entirely different. Our goal is to have a security professional familiar
with the Metasploit framework using wXf in under 10 minutes.

## The speakers

Ken Johnson is a Senior Application Security Consultant with FishNet
Security performing dynamic analysis, source code analysis and web
application penetration testing. Ken has worked for both government and
corporate organizations both at home and abroad.

Chris Gates (CG/carnal0wnage) is a member of the Metasploit Project and
Attack Research. He enjoys business logic flaws, misconfigured databases
and the occasional client-side attack. He has spoken at various other
security conferences including BlackHat USA, Defcon, CSI 2009, Brucon,
SOURCE Boston, Toorcon, Notacon, and Chicagocon.

[Category:AppSec_DC_2010_Presentations](Category:AppSec_DC_2010_Presentations "wikilink")
[Category:OWASP_Conference_Presentations](Category:OWASP_Conference_Presentations "wikilink")