# Minutes Global Chapters Committee monthly meeting Dec-2010

### Meeting

Date: 30-Dec-2010, 20h00 UTC per Skype call

### Present:

  - Andrew van der Stock (AV)
  - Tin Zaw (TZ)
  - L. Gustavo C. Barbato (GB)
  - Kate Hartmann (KH)
  - Seba Deleersnyder (SD)

### Excused:

  - Mandeep Khera (MK)
  - Puneet Mehta (PM)
  - Matthew Chalmers (MC)
  - Dave Wichers (current board representative)

### Agenda:

  - review [last
    meetings](Global_Chapter_Committee/Meetings/2010-11 "wikilink")
    action points
  - Vote on proposed governance: [Global Chapters Committee
    Governance](Global_Chapters_Committee_Governance "wikilink")
  - Committe chair candidates
  - short term / long term actions
  - Summit preparation - see Chapters Workshop
    [Stub](Summit_2011_Working_Sessions/Session018 "wikilink")
  - Chase chapter feedback on survey & summit budget
    [request](https://lists.owasp.org/pipermail/owasp-leaders/2010-December/004142.html)
    (sent by Tom)

### Minutes:

  - Global Chapters Committee Governance has been drafted, based on the
    conference committee governance template. Action for everybody to
    review and propose any amendments by the next monthly meeting when
    it is up for vote.
  - There are currently 2 candidates for the committee chair: Tin and
    Andrew. Action for the candidates and other potential candidates to
    propose an action plan for the committee and 'campaign their
    candidacy' for the next monthly meeting where the chair will be
    voted for 2011.
  - The number of people on the committee was discussed. The committee
    still needs some more members to achieve regional coverage and have
    critical mass to move forward. Action point for Kate to provide
    feedback on contacted leaders (see last meeting action points)
  - One important metric is to track the number of active and inactive
    chapters. We will find out the last status as a result of the survey
    launched by Tom (see
    [request](https://lists.owasp.org/pipermail/owasp-leaders/2010-December/004142.html)).
    Action points are to track the responses and contact chapter leaders
    of chapters that have not yet answered in the coming weeks.
  - Two new chapter tools have been released, OWASP Gear and regonline
    registration system with membership links. Action point to update
    the chapter handbook with these tools.
  - The creation of a separate mailing list for chapter leaders was
    discussed. This is an action point for Kate, after all the chapter
    leader contacts have been collected. To be announced by the next
    monthly meeting.
  - The creation of regional mailing lists was discussed. For some
    regions this makes sense, for other regions this can be politically
    sensitive. It was decided to create regional mailing lists
    'on-request', bottom-up (e.g. For Australia).
  - The creation of a new survey was discussed, but there is the outcome
    of the survey from 2009 (action point: share this with the
    committee). And the survey from Tom will be valuable input.
  - Based on the life-cycle of a chapter a FAQ on chapter best practices
    can be created with pointers into the chapter leader handbook.
    Action to start this.
  - A regular timing has to be fixed for the monthly meetings. One idea
    is to shift the meeting time in even and odd months, so committee
    members can at least attend one in two meetings during their day
    time. Action to set up a mail thread to discuss the options.
  - SD has started a workshop stub for the Summit on chapters. Action
    for everybody to prepare and participate on-site or remotely.

### Action points:

|            |                                                                                                                                                  |                                       |                         |             |             |             |        |             |        |
| ---------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ | ------------------------------------- | ----------------------- | ----------- | ----------- | ----------- | ------ | ----------- | ------ |
| width="25" | ID                                                                                                                                               | width="400"                           | Action Point            | width="100" | Responsible | width="100" | Timing | width="100" | Status |
| 1          | Review the proposed Global Chapters Committee Governance and propose any amendments by the next monthly meeting when it is up for vote           | All                                   | By next monthly meeting | Open        |             |             |        |             |        |
| 2          | Propose an action plan for the committee and 'campaign their candidacy' for the next monthly meeting where the chair will be voted for 2011      | TZ, AV and other potential candidates | By next monthly meeting | Closed      |             |             |        |             |        |
| 3          | Complete contact details on the Global Chapters Committee home page                                                                              | PM, MC, MK, AV                        | By next monthly meeting | Open        |             |             |        |             |        |
| 4          | Any feedback from extra committee candidates?                                                                                                    | KH                                    | By next monthly meeting | Open        |             |             |        |             |        |
| 5          | Share the current feedback on Tom's Survey with the committee                                                                                    | SD                                    | By 3-Jan-2011           | Closed      |             |             |        |             |        |
| 6          | Contact chapter leaders that have not yet answered in the coming weeks and complete the central list of chapters and chapter leaders with status | All                                   | By 15-Jan-2011          | Open        |             |             |        |             |        |
| 7          | Share an editable central list of chapters and chapter leaders with contact details, survey status and committee following-up field              | KH                                    | By 4-Jan-2011           | Closed      |             |             |        |             |        |
| 8          | Update the chapter handbook with regonline and OWASP gear. Ask for feedback through the 'talk' page on wiki to the other chapter leaders         | SD                                    | By next monthly meeting | Open        |             |             |        |             |        |
| 9          | Create a separate mailing list for chapter leaders to discuss chapter specific topics.                                                           | KH                                    | By next monthly meeting | Open        |             |             |        |             |        |
| 10         | Share the outcome of the 2009 chapter survey with the committee                                                                                  | SD                                    | By next monthly meeting | Closed      |             |             |        |             |        |
| 11         | Start a FAQ based on an OWASP chapter life-cycle with pointers into the handbook                                                                 | SD                                    | By next monthly meeting | Open        |             |             |        |             |        |
| 12         | Start a mailing thread to fix regular meeting timing(s) for the committee                                                                        | SD                                    | By 4-Jan-2011           | Closed      |             |             |        |             |        |
| 13         | Prepare the Summit workshop on chapters and actively involve chapter leaders in the workshop                                                     | All                                   | By 8-Feb-2011           | Open        |             |             |        |             |        |

[Category:Global_Chapters_Committee](Category:Global_Chapters_Committee "wikilink")