# Minutes Global Chapters Committee monthly meeting Jan-2011

### Meeting

Dates:

  - 31-Jan-2011, 20h00 UTC per Skype call
  - 1-Feb-2011, 14h00 UTC per Skype call

### Present:

  - Andrew van der Stock (AV)
  - Tin Zaw (TZ) 31-Jan
  - L. Gustavo C. Barbato (GB) 31-Jan
  - Kate Hartmann (KH) 31-Jan
  - Seba Deleersnyder (SD) 31-Jan
  - Mandeep Khera (MK) 31-Jan
  - Puneet Mehta (PM)
  - Matthew Chalmers (MC) 31-Jan
  - Dave Wichers (current board representative)

### Excused:

### Agenda:

  - review [last
    meetings](Global_Chapter_Committee/Meetings/2010-12 "wikilink")
    action points
  - Vote on proposed governance: [Global Chapters Committee
    Governance](Global_Chapters_Committee_Governance "wikilink")
  - Summit workshop
  - Chapter leaders mailing list
  - Re-animate inactive chapters

### Minutes:

31-Jan:

  - reviewed last meetings action points
  - some small amendments were done on the proposed governance: [Global
    Chapters Committee
    Governance](Global_Chapters_Committee_Governance "wikilink"). To be
    voted on per e-mail (Seba will sent an e-mail to be answered Yes/No
    by Wednesday evening Feb-2, UTC)
  - Having an owasp.org account for all chapter leaders is not
    mandatory, but should be suggested in the chapter handbook
  - A lot of chapters are inactive, a process to identify and follow-up
    on the inactive chapters is to be created. Tin will follow this up.
  - The handbook should be updated to use as guide to revive dormant or
    inactive chapters
  - Currently only Tin has sent a chair pitch
  - Tin to check with Andrew if a co-chair model can be used.
  - Seba will invite all the chapter leaders that come to the summit on
    the chapters workshop

1-Feb:

  - ...

### Action points:

|            |                           |             |              |             |             |             |        |             |        |
| ---------- | ------------------------- | ----------- | ------------ | ----------- | ----------- | ----------- | ------ | ----------- | ------ |
| width="25" | ID                        | width="400" | Action Point | width="100" | Responsible | width="100" | Timing | width="100" | Status |
| 1          | Vote on Governance e-mail | Seba        |              | Done        |             |             |        |             |        |

[Category:Global_Chapters_Committee](Category:Global_Chapters_Committee "wikilink")