# Global Chapters Committee monthly meeting April 2011

## Meeting Information

Dates:

  - 11-Apr-2011, 19h00 UTC, Bridge Line: 866-645-3167 OR 816-423-4241,
    Participant Code: 8656478
  - 12-Apr-2011, 14h00 UTC, Bridge Line: 1-866-534-4754, Code: "OWASP"
    (69277), Skype sarah.baso to connect to US bridge line

## Roll Call

### Present

  - Tin Zaw (TZ) 11-Apr
  - Kate Hartmann (KH) 11-Apr
  - Seba Deleersnyder (SD) 11-Apr
  - Mandeep Khera (MK) 11-Apr
  - Sarah Baso (SB) 11-Apr & 12-Apr
  - L. Gustavo C. Barbato (GB) 12-Apr

### Absent

  - Andrew van der Stock (AV)
  - Puneet Mehta (PM)
  - Matthew Chalmers (MC)

## Agenda

1.  Introducing Sarah Baso
2.  2011 Budget Status
3.  OWASP on the Move Update
4.  Chapter Leader Handbook Update
5.  (Anything else, time permitting)

## Minutes

### Monday, 11 April

  - Introduction of Sarah Baso, who will be providing operational
    support for the Global Chapter Committee. For details view [Sarah's
    Role w/OWASP](User:Sarah_Baso "wikilink").

<!-- end list -->

  - Budget Update:
      - Board tentatively approved 50% of all global committee budgets
        ([Chapter Committee Budget Request -
        $45,000](https://spreadsheets.google.com/a/owasp.org/ccc?key=0Ai_clZjtpXPwdEV0cFIySDdMQVhCTnllbHNwbWp4Tmc&hl=en&authkey=COX_wIUO)
        + $5000 already approved for Committee Operational Support
        Position). The Board will review remainder of budgets in the
        next week or so.
      - TZ proposes that the committee fund the line item "OWASP on the
        Move" ($10,000) in its entirety, and allocate any remaining
        funds approved by the board equally to the other 3 initiatives
        listed on the 2011 Budget (Chapter Leader Summits, Chapter
        Nurturing Program, and Student Chapters Program).
          - TZ, SD, MK all vote "Yes" on this allocation of funds.
          - SB to follow up on votes from other committee members on 12
            April call and via email.

<!-- end list -->

  - Regarding committee overlap on College Chapters/University Outreach
    initiatives:
      - TZ talked with Martin Knobloch (Chair of Education Committee and
        Project Leader for OWASP Education Project) and Dan Cornell
        (Chair of the Membership Committee). While not much structure
        currently exists to prevent overlap of committee initiatives,
        for now they made sure that there was not duplication in the
        2011 committee budgets and recognized that there is gray area in
        who is in charge of what.
      - TZ suggested that for now, Chapter Committee members could reach
        out to a few select local universities about kick-starting
        college chapters and then connect them with Martin and the
        Education Committee. Each of these college chapters should have
        a local OWASP leader who can serve as their "local liaison."
          - MK agreed to outreach in the Bay Area, specifically Stanford
          - TZ agreed to outreach with UCLA, Cal State Pomona, and
            possibly others in LA area.
          - Seba and Martin also to engage in outreach and try to
            kick-start college chapters in their locations.
          - TZ noted that a group from Charlotte, NC was also interested
            in starting a college chapter. TZ to speak with a nearby
            chapter leader to serve as their local liaison.
      - An email needs to be sent to both Martin and Dan to keep them in
        the loop about the Chapters Committee regarding college chapter
        start-up.

<!-- end list -->

  - OWASP on the Move Update:
      - Christian Heinrich from Australia has requested funds from OWASP
        on the Move to attend AusCERT 2011 (a non-owasp event). All
        members on call agreed that this request was outside the scope
        of the Chapter Committee, as was already communicated to
        Christian. The only other avenues for funding would be the
        Conferences Committee (who also turned him down due to lack of
        available funds) and through Christian's local OWASP chapter. KH
        will respond to Christian and reiterate that the funding he is
        requesting is outside the scope of the Chapter Committee, but he
        can contact his local OWASP chapter and ask them to cover his
        costs.
      - There has been some confusion regarding the purpose and
        guidelines for OWASP on the Move
          - SD - started OotM and noted the main purpose for this
            initiative was to support chapters flying in speakers as
            well as local OWASP/chapter events
          - SD - to modify OotM wiki page to provide more clarity to the
            purpose as well as guidelines (by next month's meeting)
          - Goal is to have clear guidelines so KH can automatically
            process requests for funds that fall within the guidelines,
            and the Chapter Committee only needs to vote on applications
            with special circumstances.

<!-- end list -->

  - Progress on Chapter Handbook:
      - TZ to follow up with MC regarding progress.
      - After the OSTR, there are many chapters that have been
        identified as inactive and a process needs to be established to
        close chapters.
      - TZ to break up the Chapter Handbook into small sections and
        delegate each section to a different committee member for
        draft/review.
      - SB will set up a Google Doc to be shared by Chapter Committee
        members for this process.

<!-- end list -->

  - SD asked for clarification on the 2011 Budget item: "Chapter Leader
    Summit:
      - TZ explained this line item would be used to help fund chapter
        leaders to go to area AppSec conferences for a regional
        mee-tup/working session. For example: EU chapter leaders should
        have a meet-up/working session at AppSec EU in Dublin. If they
        are unable to go due to funding, this pool of money could help
        them with their expenses.
      - SD to coordinate meet-up/working session at AppSec EU. He will
        follow up with conference coordinators regarding space for the
        session and then contact EU leaders about whether they plan to
        attend the conference.
      - Similar approach should be taken for AppSec US, AppSec LA, and
        AppSec Asia.

### Tuesday, 12 April

  - ... SB provided recap of discussion from 11 April call
  - GB voted "yes" on 2011 Budget allocation proposal
  - GB agreed to engage chapter leaders on LA mailing list about
    becoming "local liaisons" for kick-starting college chapters in
    their areas.
  - GB noted that there is a significant problem in Brazil (as well as
    other countries in SA/LA) regarding international funds transfers.
    He wondered if OWASP could look into setting up a Non-profit
    foundation in Brazil to handle expenses/fund transfers related to
    the local chapters as well as conferences. SB to discuss this with
    KH and other OWASP personnel and get back to GB on the issue.

### Action points:

|            |                                                                                                                                             |             |                               |             |             |             |        |             |        |
| ---------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ----------- | ----------------------------- | ----------- | ----------- | ----------- | ------ | ----------- | ------ |
| width="25" | ID                                                                                                                                          | width="400" | Action Point                  | width="100" | Responsible | width="100" | Timing | width="100" | Status |
| 1          | Vote on 2011 Budget Allocation                                                                                                              | Matt        | ASAP                          |             |             |             |        |             |        |
| 2          | Vote on 2011 Budget Allocation                                                                                                              | Puneet      | ASAP                          |             |             |             |        |             |        |
| 3          | Vote on 2011 Budget Allocation                                                                                                              | Andrew      | ASAP                          | "YES"       |             |             |        |             |        |
| 4          | Outreach for starting college chapter(s) in Bay Area, specifically Stanford                                                                 | Mandeep     |                               |             |             |             |        |             |        |
| 5          | Outreach for starting college chapter(s) at UCLA, Cal State Pomona, and possibly others in LA area.                                         | Tin         |                               |             |             |             |        |             |        |
| 6          | Speak with chapter leader to serve as their local liaison for college chapter in Charlotte, NC                                              | Tin         |                               |             |             |             |        |             |        |
| 7          | Outreach for starting college chapter(s) in Belgium                                                                                         | Seba        |                               |             |             |             |        |             |        |
| 8          | Email LatAm Leaders regarding starting college chapter(s) in their area and serving as local liaisons                                       | L. Gustavo  |                               |             |             |             |        |             |        |
| 9          | Email Martin and Dan re: college chapter start-up                                                                                           |             |                               |             |             |             |        |             |        |
| 10         | Modify OWASP on the Move wiki page to provide clarity to purpose and guidelines                                                             | Seba        | May Chapter Committee Meeting | Done        |             |             |        |             |        |
| 11         | Follow up with MC regarding status of Chapter Handbook, then break up the Handbook into small sections to be delegated to committee members | Tin         |                               |             |             |             |        |             |        |
| 12         | Set up a Google doc for working on the Chapter Handbook                                                                                     | Sarah Baso  |                               | Done 4/18   |             |             |        |             |        |
| 13         | Coordinate chapter leader meet-up/working session at AppSec EU                                                                              | Seba        |                               | Done 4/22   |             |             |        |             |        |
| 14         | Look into setting up an OWASP Foundation in Brazil to handle Brazilian chapter & conference Funds                                           | Sarah Baso  |                               |             |             |             |        |             |        |
| 15         | Post March Chapter Committee Meeting Minutes                                                                                                | Sarah Baso  |                               | Done        |             |             |        |             |        |
| 16         | Post April Chapter Committee Meeting Minutes                                                                                                | Sarah Baso  |                               | Done        |             |             |        |             |        |

[Category:Global_Chapters_Committee](Category:Global_Chapters_Committee "wikilink")