# Global Chapters Committee monthly meeting July2011

## Meeting Information

Dates:

  - 18-July-2011, 19h00 UTC, Bridge Line: 1-866-645-3167 OR
    816-423-4241, Participant Code: 8656478
  - 19-July-2011, 14h00 UTC, Bridge Line: 1-866-534-4754, Code: "OWASP"
    (69277), Skype sarah.baso to connect to US bridge line

## Agenda

  - Sarah Baso - explanation of [Chapter Activity
    Matrix](https://spreadsheets.google.com/spreadsheet/ccc?key=0ApZ9zE0hx0LNdENJNmo5SmxLcEg3MzVXZG9NVklEdUE&hl=en_US)
    and proposal on going forward with sorting out inactive chapters (If
    no meeting in over 1 year, we give them notice and request that they
    have a meeting in the next quarter otherwise we will be
    "inactivating" their chapter. We can review chapter activity
    quarterly for assessment and housekeeping.)

<!-- end list -->

  - Updates from the July board meeting [July Meeting
    Minutes](https://docs.google.com/a/owasp.org/document/d/1VMwYrP6owtZ-SchBxUcWTIF-ITvzUX8PjUkLPwr2ipg/edit?hl=en_US&authkey=CIGTx5sD)
    in particular:
      - Update on honorary membership for local chapter leaders
      - Update on local conference policy

<!-- end list -->

  - Discussion and vote on Chapters Policies for handling local/regional
    events.

<!-- end list -->

  - Equipment and Fixed Assets - Any objections to the following process
    for local chapters requesting reimbursement for equipment,
    projectors, laptops, video equipment, etc:
    These items are considered fixed assets, and should be tracked by
    the Foundation. Even though the essentially belong to the chapter,
    by allocating and tracking them at the Foundation level, the
    accountability of the expense rests at the foundation level. The
    local chapter would then “donate” the cost of the equipment back to
    the Foundation. Essentially, the goal is to process requests for
    reimbursement on capital expenses by allocating the purchase as a
    fixed asset cost to the foundation, since local chapters do not fill
    out tax returns. The local chapter retains possession of the
    equipment.

<!-- end list -->

  - Discussion & Comments re: OWASP adoption of [Chatham House
    Rule](http://en.m.wikipedia.org/wiki/Chatham_House_Rule)

As proposed by Tom Brennan: ''Recently OWASP leaders were asked to sign
NDA's for several onsite meetings, education sessions and collaboration
efforts. Some have experienced a similar concern at chapter meetings
from attending individuals. I suggest adoption of: "Chatham House Rule"
to enable open discussions that fits our model. It can be incorporated
into the disclaimers for those giving talks at chapters,
operational/bylaws of local chapters, mailing list/forum terms and
referenced as how OWASP operates enabling Open exchange of information
in our community. "When a meeting, or part thereof, is held under the
Chatham House Rule, participants are free to use the information
received, but neither the identity nor the affiliation of the
speaker(s), nor that of any other participant, may be revealed." ''

  - Chapter leader workshops at [ApppSec
    USA](AppSec_USA_2011#tab=Chapter_Leader_Workshop "wikilink") and
    LATAM - Brasil.

<!-- end list -->

  - [Chapter
    Handbook](https://spreadsheets.google.com/a/owasp.org/spreadsheet/ccc?key=0Ai_clZjtpXPwdEV0cFIySDdMQVhCTnllbHNwbWp4Tmc&hl=en_US&authkey=COX_wIUO)
    updates - proposed working session (separate from Chapter workshop)
    for actual drafting of document. Open to leaders in attendance and
    requested of leaders that we sponsor to attend. Goal to have new
    handbook finished by Nov. 1.

<!-- end list -->

  - [Budget
    review](https://spreadsheets.google.com/a/owasp.org/spreadsheet/ccc?key=0Ai_clZjtpXPwdEV0cFIySDdMQVhCTnllbHNwbWp4Tmc&hl=en_US&authkey=COX_wIUO)
    and projections for 2nd half of 2011.

## Minutes

[July 2011 Meeting
Minutes](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1BWvMMpOUB_oWHxLbAfVPp-F6kpFPZiGmueGK9N7-bM4/edit?hl=en_US)

[Category:Global_Chapters_Committee](Category:Global_Chapters_Committee "wikilink")