# Global Chapters Committee monthly meeting June 2011

## Meeting Information

Dates:

  - 9-May-2011, 19h00 UTC, Bridge Line: 1-866-645-3167 OR 816-423-4241,
    Participant Code: 8656478
  - 10-May-2011, 14h00 UTC, Bridge Line: 1-866-534-4754, Code: "OWASP"
    (69277), Skype sarah.baso to connect to US bridge line

## Roll Call

### Present

  - Tin Zaw (TZ) 20-June
  - Seba Deleersnyder (SD) 20-June
  - Sarah Baso (SB) 20-June & 21-June
  - Kate Hartmann (KH) 20-June & 21-June
  - Andrew van der Stock (AV) 21-June

### Absent

  - Mandeep Khera (MK)
  - L. Gustavo C. Barbato (GB)
  - Puneet Mehta (PM)
  - Matthew Chalmers (MC)

## Agenda

  - Updates from the board meeting in particular:
      - Update on chapter finances, and
      - Update on local conference policy

<!-- end list -->

  - Updates on European foundation
  - Chapter leader workshops at ApppSec USA and LATAM
  - Chapter handbook updates

## Minutes

### Monday, 20 June

#### Updates from the June Board Meeting

  - Board voted “in theory” to the move to allocate the supervision and
    support of local and regional events from the umbrella of the
    Conference’s committee to the Chapter’s committee. As part of this
    vote, an effective date of July 31, 2011 was also agreed upon.
    [June 20 Meeting
    Minutes](https://docs.google.com/a/owasp.org/document/d/1VD9ZHEwht9tmM8FKEQ6DBrtmL_gTAhSSnQhiFXYkJ7I/edit?hl=en_US&authkey=CIavkP4B)

Changes are outlined as follows:

1\. Global AppSec Events will remain under the Supervision of the Global
Conference Committee.

2\. Partner Events and Outreach (representation) will remain under the
Supervision of the Global Conference Committee.

3\. Local and Regional Events will move underneath the umbrella of the
Global Chapter Committee.

  - The Board did not vote on the Chapter Finances Policy and Procedure
    as it was agreed that there was not ample time to review the
    document.

<!-- end list -->

  - Discussion points from Chapters Committee call:
      - The global committees exist to provide support and enable growth
        in the applicable area (chapter, conferences, etc.), not to
        supervise or govern. The Chapters Committee's main goal is to
        enable the local chapters to be as successful as possible.
      - The event planners should be able to ask for help from the
        committee they think is best suited to meet their needs. For
        local training days or local one day events put on by one
        chapter, this support will likely be best suited for the
        Chapters Committee. On the other hand, if the event involves
        speaker selection, budgeting, signing contracts, or coordination
        with other organizations, the event would likely be best suited
        for guidance from the Conference Committee.
      - Two areas that need to be worked out/further defined: 1)
        oversight of chapter finances & 2) define the gray area of who
        handles what.
      - Regardless of who (which committee/chapter) does what - all
        finances and financial decisions need to be run through the
        Foundation.
      - SB to update the Money Management section of the chapter
        handbook and send out to committee for review and comment, so we
        can hopefully submit it for approval/vote by the Board at their
        July meeting.

#### OWASP European Foundation - Updates

Tabled until next meeting

#### Chapters Workshops Global AppSec Conferences

  - Workshop at AppSec EU was a success - [meeting
    minutes](https://docs.google.com/a/owasp.org/document/d/1PrGmwy1pxs2cb4LyewXS4TonbzAY7nORWvj-NJYaEnk/edit?hl=en_US)
    have been posted to the committee page
  - SB following up on action items from workshop including, survey on
    "top 10" suggestions for chapter leaders, and revisions to the
    chapter handbook concerning money management.
  - Similar format should be used for chapter workshop at other Global
    AppSec events this year.

### Tuesday, 21 June

  - Discussion regarding Board decision on conference/local event
    supervision
      - AVS voiced concerns about the bandwidth of the Chapters
        Committee to take on more work/responsibility. This will have to
        be carefully managed as it is obviously new territory for the
        Chapters Committee.
      - AVS - on board with the general idea behind the shift - with the
        goal of removing barriers for local/regional event planners

#### Chapter Handbook Updates

  - AVS has spent quite a bit of time looking at the Chapter Handbook -
    making notes in the margins. He would like to go ahead with editing
    the text, but would like comments and suggestions from the rest of
    the committee.
  - AVS to follow up with his thoughts about changes to the handbook via
    email to the committee and also contact Matthew Chalmers who had
    expressed interest and strong opinions about the handbook a few
    months ago.

### Action points:

|            |                                                                                                                                  |                      |                          |             |             |             |        |             |        |
| ---------- | -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | -------------------- | ------------------------ | ----------- | ----------- | ----------- | ------ | ----------- | ------ |
| width="25" | ID                                                                                                                               | width="400"          | Action Point             | width="100" | Responsible | width="100" | Timing | width="100" | Status |
| 1          | Update Money Management section of Chapter Handbook and email to committee for comment                                           | Sarah Baso           | By July 11 Board Meeting |             |             |             |        |             |        |
| 2          | Follow up and report to committee on inactive/new chapters                                                                       | Sarah Baso           | July GCC meeting         |             |             |             |        |             |        |
| 3          | Email to GCC re: changes to Chapter Handbook                                                                                     | Andrew van der Stock |                          |             |             |             |        |             |        |
| 4          | Coordinate call between Mark Bristow, Tin Zaw, Kate Hartmann, and Seba Deleersnyder to discuss new conference/local event policy | Sarah Baso           | ASAP                     |             |             |             |        |             |        |
| 5          | Post June Chapter Committee Meeting Minutes                                                                                      | Sarah Baso           | ASAP                     | Done        |             |             |        |             |        |

[Category:Global_Chapters_Committee](Category:Global_Chapters_Committee "wikilink")