# Global Chapters Committee monthly meeting March 2011

## Dates

  - 8-March-2011, 14h00 UTC per Skype call
  - 14-March-2011, 20h00 UTC per Skype call

## Role Call

### Present

  - Tin Zaw (TZ)
  - Matt Chalmers (MC)
  - Kate Hartmann (KH)
  - Mandeep Khera (MK)

### Absent

  - Seba Deleersnyder (SD)
  - Andrew van der Stock (AV)
  - L. Gustavo C. Barbato (GB)

## Minutes

  - Note: Minutes recorded by TZ on 14 March, 2011. No committee members
    attended 8-March call.


<!-- end list -->

1.  Consolidating Chapter Leader List
    We now have three different sources of information on who the
    chapter leaders are. Among these, summit fund transfer survey (that
    77 active chapter leaders responded) has the most latest info. One
    of the first items on the new assistant's list would be to
    consolidate these pieces of information and produce a single, master
    leader list.

2.  Assistant for Kate and Chapter Committee
    It looks like the Board has agreed to allocate $5,000 to hire an
    assistant to help Kate and the Chapter Committee with administrative
    paperwork. Kate has a few resumes. We need to help define the role,
    and send resumes to Kate if we know anyone.
    \*Action Item: Tin -- Complete job description for the assistant.

3.  Budget
    We should submit the committee budget by March 28, a week before the
    board's meeting on April 4. Here is our budget proposal (in
    prioritized list).
    1.  OWASP on the Move -- $10,000 (refer to OotM wiki page)
    2.  Chapter Leaders Summits (at Dublin, Minneapolis and possibly
        Porto Alegre) -- $15,000
    3.  Local Chapter Nurturing Program -- $10,000 (to help new and
        newer chapters with supplies, sponsorship for initial meetings,
        etc.)
    4.  OWASP Student Chapter Support -- $10,000 (funds to kickstart
        student chapter program, to be coordinated with Membership and
        Education committees).

        \*Action Item: Tin -- Budget proposal draft by March 21.
        \*Action Item: Committee Members -- Review and provide feedback
        by March 26.
        \*Action Item: Tin -- Submit budget to the board by March 28.

4.  Inactive Chapter Cleanup
    We can put chapters into three categories.
    \# Chapters that responded to summit funds transfer survey, and are
    active
    1.  Chapters that responded to summit funds transfer survey, but
        inactive
    2.  Chapters that did not respond:
        Categories 1 and 2 represent 77 chapters. We have a few chapters
        that had technical reasons in responding to the survey. We will
        address them one by one.

        For chapters in Category 3, we will mark them as inactive, as we
        did for Austria chapter, will start the process to reclaim their
        funds, and solicit for new leaders.

        \* Action Item: Kate -- Mark chapters in Category 3 as
        inactive.
        \* Action Item: Kate -- Start reclaim process of chapter funds.
        Proposal -- If the funds are less than $200, reclaim
        automatically; more than $200, discuss at next committee
        meeting.
        \* Action Item: Matt -- Check with Larry or write a script if
        necessary for scraping chapter leader data from Wiki.
        \* Action Item: Tin -- Send out proposal to vote for reclaiming
        funds.
        \* Action Item: Matt -- Propose how to shut down a chapter.

        Kate also brought up the concern about a chapter. We will
        discuss it via confidential mailing list.

5.  Chapter Leader Handbook Update
    We need to fulfill the board's request (from Tom B.)
    "can your team put your heads together and provide a milestone/ETA
    on this being completed as a core item of the committee - April?"
    I believe he asked ETA by April. This should be on our short term
    goal list.

### Action points:

|            |                                                                                             |                   |              |             |             |             |        |             |        |
| ---------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ----------------- | ------------ | ----------- | ----------- | ----------- | ------ | ----------- | ------ |
| width="25" | ID                                                                                          | width="400"       | Action Point | width="100" | Responsible | width="100" | Timing | width="100" | Status |
| 1          | Complete job description for the assistant.                                                 | Tin               |              | Done        |             |             |        |             |        |
| 2          | Budget proposal draft                                                                       | Tin               | March 21     | Done        |             |             |        |             |        |
| 3          | 2011 Budget: Review and provide feedback                                                    | Committee Members | March 26     | Done        |             |             |        |             |        |
| 4          | Submit budget to the board                                                                  | Tin               | March 28     | Done        |             |             |        |             |        |
| 5          | Mark chapters in Category 3 (above) as inactive.                                            | Kate              |              |             |             |             |        |             |        |
| 6          | Start reclaim process of chapter funds.                                                     | Kate              |              |             |             |             |        |             |        |
| 7          | Check with Larry or write a script if necessary for scraping chapter leader data from Wiki. | Matt              |              |             |             |             |        |             |        |
| 8          | Send out proposal to vote for reclaiming funds.                                             | Tin               |              |             |             |             |        |             |        |
| 9          | Propose how to shut down a chapter.                                                         | Matt              |              |             |             |             |        |             |        |

[Category:Global_Chapters_Committee](Category:Global_Chapters_Committee "wikilink")