# Global Chapters Committee monthly meeting May 2011

## Meeting Information

Dates:

  - 9-May-2011, 19h00 UTC, Bridge Line: 1-866-645-3167 OR 816-423-4241,
    Participant Code: 8656478
  - 10-May-2011, 14h00 UTC, Bridge Line: 1-866-534-4754, Code: "OWASP"
    (69277), Skype sarah.baso to connect to US bridge line

## Roll Call

### Present

  - Tin Zaw (TZ) 9-May & 10-May
  - Kate Hartmann (KH) 10-May
  - Seba Deleersnyder (SD) 9-May
  - Mandeep Khera (MK) 9-May
  - Sarah Baso (SB) 9-May & 10-May
  - L. Gustavo C. Barbato (GB) 10-May
  - Andrew van der Stock (AV) 10-May

### Absent

  - Puneet Mehta (PM)
  - Matthew Chalmers (MC)

## Agenda

1.  Updates from the Board (if any, by Kate)
2.  OWASP On The Move Updates
3.  European Leader Workshop Updates
4.  Chapter Leader Handbook Updates
5.  Inactive Chapter Updates (by Sarah)
6.  European Foundation
7.  Anything else?

## Minutes

### Monday, 9 May

#### Updates from the April Board Meeting

  - 100% of committee budgets have been approved
  - [Matt Tesauro’s document on how to do
    budgeting](https://docs.google.com/a/owasp.org/document/d/1X5uH7vqKH3aqRIBka11N05xFZ2_jddXAkz_8GcVCr_c/edit?hl=en#)
    – please take time to read through and follow up via email for
    discussion so we can provide feedback to board by next meeting

#### Updates from Sarah

  - Sarah set up [Google
    form](https://spreadsheets.google.com/a/owasp.org/spreadsheet/viewform?formkey=dF85bGtvdWdrd2JjYldNZ1gxSkJxaEE6MQ)
    for chapter requests - when chapter committee funds are requested
    (if chapter doesn't have enough money to cover request) & if less
    than $300 (including shipping) than run by Tin for approval, if more
    then committee vote. Once EU Foundation is set up with UPS shipping
    acct we will try to keep shipping for EU within EU to mitigate
    costs.
  - Inactive chapter/cleanup
      - Sarah has been emailing chapter leaders if the chapter appears
        to be inactive (no wiki updates or posts to mailing list in over
        6 months). This appearance of inactivity will not determine who
        is "inactive" but more a starting point for follow up/check in
        with the chapter.
      - Sarah is creating a spreadsheet of chapter metrics and data
        collected from contacting chapter and will share with committee
        by June meetings.
      - Many chapters/chapter leaders seem to be struggling to keep
        their wiki page updated with current meetings/data, we need to
        think about/discuss an easier option for updating wiki.
  - Sarah is working on reorg of chapter committee page - by geographic
    region and should have done by end of week. She will send out an
    email to the committee when this is complete and solicit committee
    feedback.

#### Chapters Workshops Global AppSec Conferences

  - Seba set up a tab on the [AppSec EU
    2011](AppSecEU2011#tab=Chapters_Workshop "wikilink") wiki page with
    details and to track who is attending.
      - The session will be from 14:30-18:00.
      - Discussion points include: How to improve the current Chapter
        Leader Handbook, How to start new chapters within Europe, How to
        support inactive chapters within Europe, What Governance model
        is required for OWASP chapters, and How can the global chapters
        committee facilitate the European chapters?
  - Currently the chapter committee is funding attendance at appsec eu
    for Konstantinos Papapanagiotou (chapter leader from Greece) and
    possibly a chapter leader from Spain. Seba will follow up with
    committee if funding approval is needed for Spain chapter leader.
  - Chapter Workshop at AppSec USA
      - To occur the day before the conference starts (Wednesday, Sept.
        21) from 12:00 noon to 3:30pm.
      - Committee to provide lunch for attendees and then be done in
        time for 5/10K run occurring at AppSec USA at 4pm.
  - Process for requesting/awarding funds to attend conference - Tin
    will send out an email to all the chapter leaders letting them know
    about the workshop, then follow up individually letting them know
    that if for one reason or another they want to attend but don't have
    chapter funds to cover, the GCC can possibly help.
  - Process/details for chapter workshop at AppSec Brasil and AppSec
    China to be determined at a later date.
  - Chapter workshops also may be a good opportunity to solicit new
    global chapter committee members.

#### OWASP European Foundation

  - Currently both Norway and France OWASP chapters have their own legal
    structure set up.
  - Seba requested a board vote (currently in progress): whether board
    members in principle support the startup of a European OWASP
    Foundation. The goal is to have the new foundation up and running by
    AppSec EU.
  - Benefits include:
      - Ease of payments (IBAN-BIC numbers) within the Euro zone (less
        accounting overhead, less exchange rate risk exposure, no paypal
        fees, faster cash-in)
      - OWASP deducting / avoiding VAT in the EU (savings on
        chapter/conferences/summit costs)
      - EU people possibly being able to tax-deduct donations to an EU
        non-profit entity (extra revenue)
      - Being able to create EU standard invoices in Euro's (less
        accounting overhead, faster cash-in)
      - Potentially tap into EU/governmental budgets (extra revenue)
      - Less hassle to hire EU employees/contractors (less overhead,
        better social protection for employees)
      - Providing a governance umbrella for EU chapters/events
  - Seba to initiate EU legal entity in Belgium
  - Bookkeeping can be primarily done by Alison - we can set up Alison
    with an EU software package to create and follow-up on EU invoices/
    costs.
  - TZ - Who will sign the checks for the new foundation? Seba - mostly
    likely the European Board consisting of Eoin, Seba, and Tom

#### OWASP On the Move

  - Seba updated OWASP on the move page.

#### Miscellaneous

  - Sarah set up a google doc for editing/comments to the Chapter
    Handbook. She will resend
    [link](https://docs.google.com/a/owasp.org/document/d/1tKdHzx_bRSZ8hNzrhkuFQwv1ljZiegoa9EFqQYE-VkA/edit?hl=en)
    to committee members.
  - "How to start a chapter" link should appear on wiki home page
    (similar to "how to start a project")

### Tuesday, 10 May

  - Reviewed meeting notes from Monday's call (above)
  - Comments/additions:
      - In addition to the OWASP European Foundation, need to look into
        OWASP Brazil, Australia, and Asia foundations. This is part of
        OWASP's "3 year plan" and need to wait to see hoe the set up for
        the European Foundation goes and then will move forward with
        others if goes according to plan.
      - Short term solution for handling international funds/foundation
        issues - hire a conference planning company who can help handle
        finances and these international foundation issues (tax
        benefits, etc).

### Action points:

|            |                                                                            |                       |                         |             |             |             |        |             |        |
| ---------- | -------------------------------------------------------------------------- | --------------------- | ----------------------- | ----------- | ----------- | ----------- | ------ | ----------- | ------ |
| width="25" | ID                                                                         | width="400"           | Action Point            | width="100" | Responsible | width="100" | Timing | width="100" | Status |
| 1          | Review/Comment on MT's "How to Budget" document                            | All Committee Members | By June 6 board meeting |             |             |             |        |             |        |
| 2          | Follow up and report to committee on inactive chapters                     | Sarah Baso            | June GCC meeting        |             |             |             |        |             |        |
| 3          | Reorg of local chapter home page                                           | Sarah Baso            | ASAP                    |             |             |             |        |             |        |
| 4          | Email North American Chapter Leaders about chapter workshop for AppSec USA | Tin Zaw               |                         |             |             |             |        |             |        |
| 5          | Post May Chapter Committee Meeting Minutes                                 | Sarah Baso            |                         | Done        |             |             |        |             |        |

[Category:Global_Chapters_Committee](Category:Global_Chapters_Committee "wikilink")