# Web Security - A Window of Opportunity

**A white paper from OWASP to Governments**

## Executive Summary

The Open Web Application Security Project (OWASP) is a global and open
community focused on improving the security of software systems and has
chapters in cities around the world. This document presents the vision
of the Brazilian OWASP community on how the governments can act to
improve security on the Internet.

In this paper, we present suggestions and recommendations regarding
public policy, legislation and other activities that we believe could
contribute to improving the security of the Internet and related
software applications.

The recommendations are divided according to the focus of each agency:

  - legislators
  - consumer protection bodies
  - control and audit bodies
  - teaching and research institutions
  - all public bodies

The recommendations do not have dependencies on each other, but we
believe that maximum efficiency occurs with the implementation of all
recommendations. Improving security in the local Internet could bring
several advantages for the country, such as the attraction of
investment, training of the workforce and the development of an industry
capable of exporting products and services with high added value.

The experts that participate in OWASP are willing to contribute to the
country, to help it move in the right direction and, for example, could
serve as an advisory body or provide a channel for liaison with foreign
experts if necessary. The OWASP organization is non-profit, and all
specialists involved are volunteers.

## Web Insecurity

The Internet is now a reality in the lives of most people, as shown by
usage statistics. The [Internet World
Stats](http://www.internetworldstats.com/) web site
[reports](http://www.internetworldstats.com/stats.htm) that about 80% of
North Americans and 60% of Europeans are Internet users. The IWS also
reports growth rates from 2010 to 2011 of more than 150% and 350% for
North America and Europe respectively.

Internet access methods also have diversified and now include everything
from traditional cybercafes to cell phones, including dialup and
broadband. Thus, the range of users goes from the casual user who
accesses from a public computer to "always connected" users, accessing
the Internet using a computer or cell phone when and wherever they are.

Whatever the frequency or access method, it is undeniable that the
Internet is now part of everyday life. Companies also increasingly rely
on the Internet as a business tool. Even disregarding businesses that
exist solely on the Internet, it is very difficult today to find an
organization which does not rely on the Internet in some way.

Also, governments have invested in the use of electronic government
(e-gov), involving strategies which provide services to the population
via the Internet.

`add e-gov examples here.`

If seen as a communications tool, the Internet has included and also
changed the routines of millions of people. E-mail is almost as popular
as the telephone. Instant messaging systems, such as MSN Messenger or
Google Talk, are used by most people for work or for leisure. Social
networks like Facebook, Orkut and Twitter, are a reality in the lives of
individuals and companies, and have gained importance as tools for
community building as well as for business.

Although it is becoming essential to society, the Internet is inherently
an insecure infrastructure. Designed in the 1960s to withstand a nuclear
attack, the Internet is able to continue operating even if a disaster
occurs in part of the network. However, this infrastructure depends on
computer programs, called software. It is the software that defines the
rules for the operation of computers, routers and other components of
the worldwide network.

As in all human activity, software development is prone to errors.
Mistakes in software can lead to failures, including security breaches.
Laurence Lessig, a law professor at Harvard University, said that "Code
is law", ie, the software is the law that governs the Internet. As a
result, the "laws" governing the Internet are flawed and these flaws can
cause problems for the security of the network users.

Flaws in Internet security are common and make the news almost daily.
There are many examples reported by police of criminals who use the
Internet to commit their crimes. In most cases, crimes are possible due
to a lack of an adequate level of security in systems. Bank fraud is
perhaps the greatest example of exploitation of security flaws, but
other types of attacks against sites and systems exist and can cause
damage to society.

The dependence of our society on Internet services is such that the mere
unavailability of some of these services (often caused by bad guys using
techniques that exploit security holes in Internet infrastructure) is
featured on the evening news, as is the unavailability of well known web
sites and networks such as Sony's Playstation network.

CERT/CC, the Computer Emergency Response Team, coordinates response to
Internet related emergencies and attacks. The CERT statistics show that
the number of catalogued vulnerabilities increased from 417 in 1999 to
7236 in 2007.

`add local statistics here.`

The state of Internet security is delicate and tends to worsen as
society increases its dependency on this network and its applications.
In an analogy with recent financial market crisis (subprime crisis in
the housing market), we have a vibrant ecosystem of applications and Web
sites whose base is not solid enough. The risk is real that the basis of
this ecosystem can collapse, as happened with the financial markets, and
the consequences could be devastating for society as a whole. As in the
case of financial markets, securing the foundation is important and the
cost is certainly lower than expected if there were a crisis before
acting.

## The Open Web Application Security Project

OWASP is a global community, focused on improving software security.
There are over 180 local OWASP chapters in all regions of the globe that
bring together the world's leading experts in application security.

OWASP is an open community dedicated to empowering organizations to be
able to conceive, develop, acquire, operate and maintain systems that
are reliable. All tools, documents, forums, and sections of OWASP are
free and open to anyone interested in improving application security.

OWASP is a new type of organization. Its freedom from commercial
pressures allows it to provide unbiased, practical, cost-effective
advice on application security. OWASP is not affiliated with any
technology company, while supporting the informed use of commercial
security technology. As many open-source software projects, OWASP
produces many types of materials in a collaborative and open manner.

The OWASP project has among its documents and important tools for
maintaining the security of applications and also promotes important
conferences in this area. All OWASP projects are free to use and
distribute.

OWASP is a non-profit and its members participate in its activities
voluntarily. All proceeds of the project come from donations and are
used to support its activities and its infrastructure.

## What can we do?

Given the importance of software in today's economy, it is imperative
that governments act to develop a market capable of producing software
whose security level is appropriate to its intended usage and the
importance of the information it will process or store. In this section,
we list some recommendations of what can be done to improve the
prospects for software security.

We believe that the actions proposed here have the potential to improve
the security of software systems used by millions of people and also to
promote a thriving industry able to put our country among the world
leaders, creating prosperity and economic growth.

### By legislators

The current software market provides incentives that emphasize
functionality over security. As a result, everyone ends up suffering
from the lack of security that is today's reality of the Internet. It is
necessary that governments acts to create incentives for the adoption of
safe practices in system development and also make accountable the
people and organizations that do not properly address the security
aspects of their applications.

Some suggested actions are:

#### Allow and encourage research on cyber attacks and defenses

Cyber crime legislation is needed and OWASP's position is not the
protection of illegal or harmful activities. However, OWASP realizes
that some initiatives to legislate about electronic crimes may also
hamper legitimate activities and the much needed research that will
allow us to correctly address security vulnerabilities.

We believe that legislation should focus on intent, criminalizing
activities that aim to cause damage to society and enabling research
activities that benefit society by creating knowledge crucial to the
improvement of secure systems.

#### Require the publication of security assessments

Disseminating information about security vulnerabilities is essential to
enable society to protect itself from attacks that exploit these faults.
Today we know that criminals involved in digital networks do exchange
information and have ample access to descriptions of failures and new
attack techniques. In other words, criminals now have more access to
information than the teams responsible for maintaining the security of
network providers, companies or the government.

As with the aviation industry, where the failures are thoroughly
investigated and the results of investigations are published, it is
important that the flaws found in computer systems and the description
of attacks suffered by organizations are widely disseminated, allowing
the whole society to learn from the problems that occurred in order to
evolve the security of systems on which we depend.

#### Create an agency to address the aspects of disclosure of security flaws

With the publication of laws requiring disclosure of security breaches,
it is important to regulate this activity. We suggest the creation of a
specialized government agency to regulate and manage the activities of
exchanging information on security vulnerabilities in an ethical and
responsible way, including the power to punish people and organizations
that act in a manner harmful to society.

#### Require compliance with minimum security requirements in government contracts

The purchasing power of government can not be ignored and must be used
in favor of society. In the context of software security, the government
can set minimum security criteria and require qualification and use of
technical protections in systems provided to the government. An
important aspect is the possibility of holding suppliers accountable in
case of failures in security.

#### Make organizations which are not diligent about software security accountable

Like other government suppliers, all organizations must be legally
responsible for the security of systems that operate or sell. The
legislation should provide for penalties to those organizations that
fail to take adequate measures to ensure the security of their systems.
The suppliers of the technologies used should also be liable.

#### Require that the government have access to security updates for all software during its lifetime

It is imperative that the systems used by public agencies are always
updated with all the security fixes, so they are not affected by known
vulnerabilities. Thus, legislation is needed to determine that the
government must have access to security fixes for systems that it
employs for the duration of the useful life of these systems and
regardless of the existence of maintenance contracts.

#### Require open sourcing of applications used by the government and whose lifetime has expired

It is quite common for software manufacturers to restrict the lifetime
of their systems, mainly because of the release of new versions of these
systems. At the end of its life, software manufacturers often stop
publishing updates and security fixes, which increases the risk to
organizations still relying on these versions.

It is also quite common in government agencies to keep using systems
that have been long-abandoned by manufacturers but that still meet the
needs of the public administration. Allowing the government to protect
itself in case of failures in these systems requires the creation of
legislation to compel manufacturers to make available the source code
for these systems so that the government is able to perform the
necessary maintenance, since the manufacturer no longer maintains the
system. The manufacturer may also choose to provide the most current
version of the software, provided there is no cost to the government.

#### Eliminate software licenses which exempt manufacturers from liability for the security of their products

Many current software licenses restrict the liability of the
manufacturer in case of software security flaws. It is important to have
legislation that prevents a software manufacturer to avoid liability for
the safety and security of the products it sells.

To avoid distortions in the software market, manufacturers' liability
may be limited to the amount paid.

### For consumer protection agencies

Our understanding is that the protection of customer information is part
of the necessary consumer protection practices, as well as to supply
systems free of defects, especially defects that may compromise the
security of its users. Thus, consumer protection agencies can and should
act to improve the security landscape for consumers.

We suggest the following actions:

#### Act to restrict the use of abusive software licenses

This action is similar and complementary to the item "Eliminate software
licenses which exempt manufacturers from liability for the security of
their products, " described above.

#### Require manufacturers to disclose understandable information on the security level of their products or services

As with manufacturers of electrical and electronic goods that must
disclose information on energy consumption of their products, consumers
have the right to know about the characteristics and the level of
security provided by the computer systems they use.

It is imperative to create a system that allows consumers to check the
level of security a software product provides as part of their
decision-making process. Such a system would reduce some of the perverse
externalities of the software market and create incentives for software
producers to enhance the security of their products.

`In this item, it is possible to quote existing local consumer rights legislation regarding defects in acquired products.`

#### Require an adequate level of security for systems that deal with private data

Many organizations collect private information from their clients during
their business relationships, but do not always protect this information
adequately. Thus, the definition of minimum procedures for protection of
information collected from consumers are required and public or private
organizations that do not adequately protect personal information should
be liable. Personal information leaks should be penalized and should be
disclosed. In particular, all those individuals potentially affected by
the leak should be alerted to the fact and its possible consequences.

`Some places already have legislation on data leaks and this item may unnecessary.`

#### Define that consumers should be informed of all possible uses of data provided to systems or sites

Not only must organizations protect the data collected from consumers,
but consumers should know all the possible uses of the information being
collected. It is therefore necessary that all public and private
organizations are obligated to disclose all possible uses for the data
they collect, including future uses. Any change in data use policies
must be informed in advance and explicitly accepted by the affected
consumers.

`Some places already have legislation about this issue and this item may be unnecessary.`

#### Establish software security awareness campaigns for consumers

In addition to actions that require software makers to act responsibly
towards consumers, it is also important to teach users of computer
systems about the risks of using these systems.

Just as it is important to make awareness campaigns for traffic safety
or disease control, it is important to educate Internet users about the
risks that come from an increasingly connected world. Campaigns should
address topics such as the risks of entering personal data in unknown
sites or the care that each person should have with their own computer
device to prevent it from becoming a weapon in the hands of
cybercriminals.

### For oversight agencies

Auditing bodies can and should demand the adoption of appropriate
practices for application security in sectors they oversee. These bodies
should establish regulations that favor the use of security techniques
in software development. Thus, the suggested actions are:

#### Define clear responsibilities about application security

Every organization should be responsible for the security of their
systems and this should be clearly defined. Oversight bodies should,
where possible, include the responsibility to maintain the security of
information systems as part of their regulations. There must be
provision for punishment in cases where there is adequate security
systems.

#### Verify and audit to ensure that appropriate security practices are adopted

Whenever possible, audits or checks must include items to assess whether
the best application security practices were properly adopted and
implemented. We believe that audits are an opportunity to improve the
practices adopted by organizations, and oversight agencies should be
prepared to require the maintenance of adequate levels of security in
the auditee's systems.

There are some models that can guide the practices of system security
audit such as the [SSE-CMM](http://www.sse-cmm.org/) (Systems Security
Engineering Capability Maturity Model), [OWASP
ASVS](http://www.owasp.org/index.php/Category:OWASP_Application_Security_Verification_Standard_Project)
(Application Security Verification Standard) or
[SAMM](http://www.opensamm.org/) (Software Assurance Maturity Model).

#### Insert the security aspects of applications in regulations or recommendations

Many oversight agencies publish regulations or oversight recommendations
for the sectors they regulate. It is important that these regulations or
recommendations include application security aspects and clearly
indicate the need to include security requirements in contracts with
suppliers.

#### Facilitate the creation of an insurance market for security applications

As much as accountability for failing to maintain appropriate levels of
security is important, it is also important to create an insurance
market for application security.

An insurance market allows the transfer of part of the security risks to
an insurer, while it tends to increase insurance costs for entities that
do not have a proper treatment of the security aspects of their systems.
Along with accountability mechanisms, a properly functioning insurance
market produces strong incentives for organizations to improve their
security posture.

#### Requiring the use of encrypted connections (SSL) for web applications

Many attacks exist today are only possible because some organizations do
not use even the most basic security mechanisms available. One such
mechanism is the SSL protocol, which allows the encryption of data
transmitted between the browser and web servers, ensuring the
confidentiality and authenticity of information.

Thus, one simple measure to improve the security of web systems is to
require that data must be transmitted securely over the Internet
network.

### For research and teaching institutions

Training the workforce is essential to move any country forward in all
areas closely linked to technology. To have a prosperous application
security market, it is necessary to train an adequate number of experts
in both the attack and defense aspects of this discipline. Training
should occur by the inclusion of the security area in the contents of
the universities and also by the training of researchers able to build
new techniques and methodologies to advance this field. The interaction
of educational and research institutions with industry for technology
transfer and productization is greatly needed.

The suggested actions for education and research institutions are:

#### Inclusion of application security best practices in course content

It is essential that all Information technology professionals are aware
of basic security practices and the inclusion of such information in
university training is the best way to achieve this goal.

Students in primary and secondary schools must also learn about the
dangers of the virtual world. At these education levels, the focus
should be on the risks involved in using systems or websites like social
networks or e-commerce sites. The ethical aspects of Internet use should
also be emphasized.

#### Creation of advanced courses in the field

Besides the basic practices that must be known by all professionals, it
is necessary to train specialists in software security for the country
to develop a thriving security industry and to generate wealth.

#### To promote and fund application security research

Generating knowledge is also essential for a country to take a world
leadership role in application security. And the only way to increase
the generation of new knowledge is to promote and fund research in the
area, whether undertaken by public or private institutions.

The promotion of knowledge and technology development in business is
critical to a country's ability to create a market in application
security products and its ability to create advanced and innovative
technologies.

#### To promote the training of professionals capable of acting with ethics and responsibility

The whole process of training undergraduates and researchers should
prioritize the responsibility and ethical aspects of security. The
ethics training must be an essential part of training these
professionals.

### For all public bodies

Any public agency may help to improve the current state of affairs by
either undertaking awareness and training, or by using its purchasing
power to favor companies that treat the security aspects of applications
adequately.

The suggested actions for all public organizations are:

#### Financing validations and security fixes for open source systems

Many government agencies use open source systems as part of their
information technology infrastructures. It is therefore essential to
these organizations that open source systems are secure and reliable.
Public agencies should invest in making security assessments of the open
source systems they adopt, in publishing secure configurations, in
developing fixes for the security flaws found in these systems and in
responsible disclosure of flaws as well as fixes.

Thus, public agencies can better serve society due to the improved
security of their own systems and third party systems.

#### Promote the use of application security technologies and methodologies

Each public agency should require and promote the use of technologies
and methodologies for developing secure applications, both internally
and by its suppliers.

It should be the responsibility of each agency ensure that their systems
have adequate security and that appropriate techniques are used in
developing their computer systems.

#### Promote and enable security testing responsibly but openly

Security tests are a major tool for finding security holes in computer
systems. Each public agency should establish a program that allows
security researchers to conduct tests on their systems in order to
locate faults and should repair the vulnerabilities as soon as possible.

We emphasize that the tests should be done in an ethical and responsible
way and should be seen as a form of collaboration to improve government
systems. We believe that cybercriminals are already conducting their own
undercover testing on these systems, unlike legitimate researchers with
good intentions. So, criminals currently have an advantage. The best way
to balance this dispute is to facilitate the work of researchers and
security professionals to find faults and report them appropriately
instead of having these faults used as a currency in the digital
underworld.

#### Promote awareness and training of managers about the challenges of web security

All public bodies should be concerned about the security of their
systems and this concern should be part of the direction given by senior
management of each government organization. It is therefore important
that managers of all agencies participate in appropriate training and
awareness sessions.

## Competitive advantages for the country

The technology field is an economic activity with high added value, and
therefore has the ability to generate wealth for the country. With the
support and leadership from the government, the country has the
potential to become a world leader in application security, and may also
generate revenue by exporting products and services with high added
value and by creating new businesses.

Because it is a labor-intensive activity, there is also the possibility
of creating jobs in the country for highly trained professionals. The
existence of trained professionals in security also supports national
sovereignty, since such knowledge is crucial in cyber-conflicts, cyber
espionage and electronic warfare.

The development of this field closely linked to information technology
also has the potential to foster the development of related areas,
increasing the country's technological capability.

The improvement of the online business environment tends to improve the
country's international image, so that it begins to be considered a safe
haven for business, both online and off. A favorable business
environment may attract international investment, especially investment
in businesses directly related to the Internet or enterprise software
development.

## How can OWASP help?

OWASP is an international community and brings together leading experts
on the subject worldwide, including civil servants. All materials and
systems developed by OWASP are freely available to the government to use
as it deems most appropriate. The OWASP community can also help in
developing materials or tools to meet the specific needs of government
agencies.

The materials and guidelines developed by OWASP can be translated into
any language in order to serve as a subsidy in developing legislation or
regulations. OWASP has good practice guides and standards that can be
used as input to the development of governmental documents in line with
the best international practices.

The experts that participate in OWASP are willing to contribute to make
the country to move in the right direction and may serve as an advisory
body or liaison with foreign experts if necessary.