# 3rd International OWASP Symposium on Web Application Security

Download this Call-For-Papers in
[PDF](http://www.cs.kuleuven.be/~lieven/AppSec2008/CFP2008.pdf),
[HTML](http://www.cs.kuleuven.be/~lieven/AppSec2008/#cfp) or
[TXT](http://www.cs.kuleuven.be/~lieven/AppSec2008/CFP2008.txt).

## CALL FOR PAPERS

<center>

<strong> Refereed Papers Track at OWASP AppSec Conference Europe 2008

May 20-23, 2008 - Brussels, Belgium

<http://www.cs.kuleuven.be/~lieven/AppSec2008/> </strong>

</center>

The OWASP AppSec conferences bring together application security experts
and software engineers from all over the world. Industry and academia
meet to discuss open problems and new solutions in application security.
The conferences offer researchers and practitioners a set of tutorials,
keynotes, and invited presentations.

As in the two previous editions, the OWASP AppSec Europe 2008 conference
will feature a refereed papers track. The goal of the refereed papers
track is twofold:

  - to give academic researchers in web application security the
    opportunity to share their research results with practitioners, and
  - to give industry people the possibility to share experiences with
    academia and the OWASP community.

Hence both research papers as well as experience papers pertaining to
all aspects of web application security are solicited. Papers should
describe new ideas, new implementations, or experiences related to web
application security.

## TOPICS OF INTEREST

Topics of interest include, but are not limited to:

  - Web application security
  - Secure application development
  - Security of Service Oriented Architectures
  - Threat modeling of web applications
  - Vulnerability analysis of web applications (code review, pentest,
    static analysis, scanning)
  - Countermeasures for web application vulnerabilities
  - Secure coding techniques
  - Experiences or new ideas on SE processes for developing secure web
    applications (CLASP, SDLC, ...)
  - Static and dynamic analysis of web application technologies
  - Platform or language (e.g. Java, .NET) security features that help
    secure web applications
  - Open source framework features that help secure web applications
  - How to use databases securely in web applications
  - Experiences on using web application security scanning or code
    analysis tools
  - Access control in web applications
  - Trusted computing solutions for web applications
  - Non-repudiation in web applications
  - Web services security
  - Browser security
  - Ajax security
  - Session hijacking
  - Cross-Domain Request Forgery
  - Assurance and certification of web applications

## IMPORTANT DATES

Submission deadline: **March 1, 2008**

Notification of acceptance: April 11, 2008

Final version due: April 25, 2008

AppSec Conference: May 20-23 2008

## INSTRUCTIONS FOR AUTHORS

Submissions should be at most 12 pages long in the Springer LNCS Style
for Proceedings and Other Multiauthor Volumes. Submissions deviating
from these requirements may be rejected without review. Templates for
preparing papers in this style for LaTeX, Word, and other word
processors can be downloaded from:
<http://www.springer.com/east/home/computer/lncs?SGWID=5-164-7-72376-0>

Submissions are due by **March 1**, 23:59 GMT. All submissions should be
sent in Adobe Portable Document Format (pdf) via
<strong>EasyChair</strong>:

<center>

<strong> <http://www.easychair.org/conferences/?conf=appsec2008>
</strong>

</center>

Additional information can be found on the conference website:
<http://www.cs.kuleuven.be/~lieven/AppSec2008/>.

## ORGANIZING COMMITTEE

  - Lieven Desmet, Katholieke Universiteit Leuven (Organizing chair)
  - Sebastien Deleersnyder, Telindus, OWASP Board
  - Frank Piessens, Katholieke Universiteit Leuven

## PROGRAMME COMMITTEE

  - Frank Piessens, Katholieke Universiteit Leuven (PC chair)
  - Martin Johns, University of Hamburg
  - Mattia Monga, Università degli Studi di Milano
  - Lieven Desmet, Katholieke Universiteit Leuven
  - Erik Poll, Radboud Universiteit Nijmegen
  - Johan Peeters, secappdev.org
  - Sebastien Deleersnyder, Telindus, OWASP Board
  - André Mariën, Inno.com
  - Konstantin Beznosov, University of British Columbia
  - Andreas Fuchsberger, Royal Holloway, University of London
  - Ulfar Erlingsson, Reykjavik University
  - Tine Verhanneman, Atos Worldline
  - Joris Claessens, European Microsoft Innovation Center