### Call for Papers (english version)

You can find here a [PDF
version](http://ibwas09.netmust.eu/files/ibwas10/IBWAS10-CfP.pdf) of the
Call for Papers.

## Introduction

There is a change in the information systems development paradigm. The
emergence of Web 2.0 technologies led to the extensive deployment and
use of web-based applications and web services as a way to developed new
and flexible information systems. Such systems are easy to develop,
deploy and maintain and demonstrate impressive features for users,
resulting in their current wide use.

As a result of this paradigm shift, the security requirements have also
changed. These web-based information systems have different security
requirements, when compared to traditional systems. Important security
issues have been found and privacy concerns have also been raised
recently. In addition, the emerging Cloud Computing paradigm promises
even greater flexibility; however corresponding security and privacy
issues still need to be examined. The security environment should
involve not only the surrounding environment but also the application
core.

This conference aims to bring together application security experts,
researchers, educators and practitioners from the industry, academia and
international communities such as OWASP, in order to discuss open
problems and new solutions in application security. In the context of
this track academic researchers will be able to combine interesting
results with the experience of practitioners and software engineers.

## Conference Topics

Suggested topics for papers submission include (but are not limited to):

  - Secure application development
  - Security of service oriented architectures
  - Security of development frameworks
  - Threat modelling of web applications
  - Cloud computing security
  - Web applications vulnerabilities and analysis (code review,
    pen-test, static analysis etc.)
  - Metrics for application security
  - Countermeasures for web application vulnerabilities
  - Secure coding techniques
  - Platform or language security features that help secure web
    applications
  - Secure database usage in web applications
  - Access control in web applications
  - Web services security
  - Browser security
  - Privacy in web applications
  - Standards, certifications and security evaluation criteria for web
    applications
  - Application security awareness and education
  - Security for the mobile web
  - Attacks and Vulnerability Exploitation

## Paper Submission Instructions

Authors should submit an original paper in English, carefully checked
for correct grammar and spelling, using the on-line submission procedure
([submission site](http://www.easychair.org/conferences/?conf=ibwas10)).
Please check the paper formats so you may be aware of the accepted paper
page limits (12 pages, in accordance to a supplied template, that can be
downloaded from here: [in Word
Format](ftp://ftp.springer.de/pub/tex/latex/llncs/word/LNCS-Office2007.zip)
and in [LateX
format](ftp://ftp.springer.de/pub/tex/latex/llncs/latex2e/llncs2e.zip)).

The guidelines for paper formatting provided at the conference web site
must be strictly used for all submitted papers. The submission format is
the same as the camera-ready format. Please check and carefully follow
the instructions and templates provided.

Each paper should clearly indicate the nature of its
technical/scientific contribution, and the problems, domains or
environments to which it is applicable.

Papers that are out of the conference scope or contain any form of
plagiarism will be rejected without reviews.

Remarks about the on-line submission procedure:

1\. A "double-blind" paper evaluation method will be used. To facilitate
that, the authors are kindly requested to produce and provide the paper,
WITHOUT any reference to any of the authors. This means that is
necessary to remove the author’s personal details, the acknowledgements
section and any reference that may disclose the authors identity

2\. Papers in ODF, PDF, DOC, DOCX or RTF format are accepted

3\. The web submission procedure automatically sends an acknowledgement,
by e-mail, to the contact author.

# Paper submission types

**Regular Paper Submission**

A regular paper presents a work where the research is completed or
almost finished. It does not necessary means that the acceptance is as a
full paper. It may be accepted as a "full paper" (30 min. oral
presentation), a "short paper" (15 min. oral presentation) or a
"poster".

**Position Paper Submission**

A position paper presents an arguable opinion about an issue. The goal
of a position paper is to convince the audience that your opinion is
valid and worth listening to, without the need to present completed
research work and/or validated results. It is, nevertheless, important
to support your argument with evidence to ensure the validity of your
claims. A position paper may be a short report and discussion of ideas,
facts, situations, methods, procedures or results of scientific research
(bibliographic, experimental, theoretical, or other) focused on one of
the conference topic areas. The acceptance of a position paper is
restricted to the categories of "short paper" or "poster", i.e. a
position paper is not a candidate to acceptance as "full paper".

# Camera-ready

After the reviewing process is completed, the contact author (the author
who submits the paper) of each paper will be notified of the result, by
e-mail. The authors are required to follow the reviews in order to
improve their paper before the camera-ready submission.

# Publications

All accepted papers will be published in the conference proceedings,
under an ISBN reference. Conference proceedings will be published by
OWASP in electronic format (**Springer proceedings have been canceled
due to a low number of paper submissions**).

## Web-site

<http://www.ibwas.com>

## Secretariat

E-mail: secretariat@ibwas.com

## Important Dates

Submission of papers and all other contributions due: **31st October
2010**

Notification of acceptance: **28th November 2010** (delayed)

Camera-ready version of accepted contributions: **5th December 2010**

Conference: **16th – 17th December 2010**