## Topic: The MySpace Worm

  - Slides: [The MySpace
    Worm](http://www.owasp.org/images/7/79/OWASP-WASCAppSec2007SanJose_SamyWorm.ppt)

## Speaker: Samy Kamkar

<b>Samy Kamkar</b>, software engineer and self-proclaimed playboy, is a
meddler in the security and software realms. He is currently the
Director of Engineering and co-founder of Fonality, Inc., an IP PBX
startup located in Culver City. Previously, Samy led the development of
all core top-level domain name server software and systems for Global
Domains International (.ws). Prior to that, Samy worked with Penn State
University developing psychometric personality assessment software with
attention to artificial intelligence and bioinformatics. When not
strapped behind the Matrix, Samy can be found performing parkour (free
running), practicing urban escape artist maneuvers, or is found getting
involved in local community service projects. In the past 10 years, Samy
has focused on evolutionary and genetic algorithmic software
development, Voice over IP software development, automated security and
vulnerability research in the areas of network security, reverse
engineering, and network gaming, and continues his focus in staying out
of jail.


## Abstract: The MySpace Worm

The most virulent worm in the history of the series of tubes known as
the Internet. One of the most highly accessed websites ever \[see
comScore\]. One of the most ostentatious hackers alive. Over one million
victims. Less than 24 hours. Fueled only by Chipotle burritos. The
MySpace Worm.

Samy will be recapping the story of the development, release and
eventual future of the MySpace worm. The 24 hours that led up to over
one million friends. The eventual downfall of the MySpace site for
several hours. The non-malicious intent and humorous progression of the
worm. The t-shirts. The copycats. The behind-the-scenes story of the
Secret Service raid at Samy's home and office. The demise of Samy's
legal use of computers, community service, restitution, high-risk
offender probation, and rehabilitation. And where Samy is today.