## Topic: The Web Hacking Incident Database (WHID) 2007 Report

## Speaker: Ryan C. Barnett

Ryan C. Barnett is a recognized security thought leader and evangelist
who frequently speaks with the media and industry groups.

He is the director of application security at Breach Security. He is
also a faculty member for the SANS Institute, where his duties include
instructor/courseware developer for Apache Security/Building a Web
Application Firewall Workshop, Top 20 Vulnerabilities Team Member and
Local Mentor for the SANS Track 4, "Hacker Techniques, Exploits and
Incident Handling" course. He holds six SANS Global Information
Assurance Certifications (GIAC): Intrusion Analyst (GCIA), Systems and
Network Auditor (GSNA), Forensic Analyst (GCFA), Incident Handler
(GCIH), Unix Security Administrator (GCUX) and Security Essentials
(GSEC).

Mr. Barnett also serves as the team lead for the Center for Internet
Security Apache Benchmark Project and is a member of the Web Application
Security Consortium. His web security book, "Preventing Web Attacks with
Apache,‚Äù was published by Addison/Wesley in 2006.

## Abstract: The Web Hacking Incident Database (WHID) 2007 Report

The web hacking incident database (WHID) 2007 Report is a Web
Application Security Consortium project dedicated to maintaining a list
of web applications related security incidents. The database classifies
each reported attack by, among other criteria, the method used, the
outcome of the attack and the industry and the country of the attacked
organization. Based on the database Breach Labs which sponsors WHID
issues a periodical report on trends in Web Application Security.

By providing answers to questions such as:

  - The drivers behind Web hacking.
  - The technology hackers use.
  - The types of organizations attacked most often.
  - The common outcomes

The presentation will discuss WHID statistics, focusing on rising trends
in Web Attacks in the 1st half of 2008. As the WHID enables research
into the business model behind hacking, the presentation goes beyond
discussing the technical aspects of attacks such as SQL injection
crawlers and Web Site herding, to discussing the business model common
to all of the attacks: Economy of scale.