## Accommodations

In preparation for this conference, OWASP has put together the following
information to help make your stay as pain free as possible.

## On campus

Accommodations were made for about 40 rooms on campus. There are two
types of rooms available:

:\* Standard Single (in Founders): £26.00 / night. Single with shared
bathroom in Founders (the big castle like building).

:\* En-Suite: (in Reid): £37.50 / night. Nicer than the standards with
en-suite bathroom in Reid (on lower campus).

All such room rates include breakfast each day.

**Registration for such rooms on Campus through OWASP is now closed**.
You will have to make your own arrangements either with the school or at
a nearby hotel.

More information about these accommodations is available here.
<http://web.rhul.ac.uk/Facilities-Management/accommodation/conference.html>

**Checkin information for those with Room Reservations at Royal
Holloway**

The following information is from Helen Seymour, Senior Conference,
Events & Hospitality Co-ordinator

"Check in time is from 14.00 on the day the delegate arrives. I am aware
that some of your delegates will be arriving earlier as your conference
registration commences at 8am, I have therefore arranged for rooms to be
available if required to store their luggage in.

Those delegates in Reid Hall would check in at Athlone Hall Reception
and those delegates staying in Founders would check in at Founders
Reception. Here is a [map](http://www.rhul.ac.uk/Shared/Maps/BWmap.pdf)
of Royal Holloway which indicates where these buildings are.

Check out is at 10am on the day of departure and again a room will be
available for the delegates to store luggage."

  -
    Helen Seymour
    Senior Conference, Events & Hospitality Co-ordinator
    Sales & Marketing Division
    Facilities Management
    Royal Holloway, University of London
    Egham, Surrey
    TW20 0EX
    Tel: 01784 414394
    e-mail: Helen.Seymour 'at' rhul.ac.uk

## In the area

<http://www.runnymedehotel.com/> 4/5 star business class accommodation
on the Thames within walking distance: (1-2 mins by car, 10mins by foot)

<http://www.greatfosters.co.uk/> Themed luxury hotel nearly within
walking distance (3-4 mins by car)

<http://www.travelodge.co.uk/travelodge/location.php?hotel_id=246>
Staines is the nearest town to Egham (5 mins by car) with a cheap(ish)
hotel:

<http://www.milesfaster.co.uk/heathrow-hotels-london.htm> Egham is close
(10-15 mins by car) to the UK’s largest airport London Heathrow which
has plenty of hotels nearby.

## Maps

[Map of Campus](http://www.rhul.ac.uk/Shared/Maps/Campus-2001.pdf)

[Map of the Egham and surrounding
areas](http://www.multimap.com/map/photo.cgi?client=public&X=500500&Y=171000&width=700&height=410&gride=&gridn=&srec=0&coordsys=gb&db=pc&pc=&zm=0&out.x=2&out.y=9&scale=10000)

## Getting to Royal Holloway, University of London

**By Road**

The College is on the A30, 20 miles from central London and about a mile
south-west of the town of Egham. It is 2 miles from junction 13 of the
M25 (London Orbital). After leaving the motorway take the A30 west,
signposted to Bagshot and Camberley (not Egham). At the first
roundabout, take the second exit; at the second roundabout, again take
the second exit and continue on the A30 up Egham Hill. The College is on
the left at the top of the hill. There are footbridges across the road
at the pedestrian and main entrances.

**By Rail**

There are frequent services from London Waterloo to Egham (35 minutes);
Woking to Egham (35 minutes, change at Weybridge) and Reading to Egham
(40 minutes). Services at weekends, especially those on Sunday, are less
frequent than on weekdays.

**By Foot from Egham**

The College is just over a mile from Egham Station, about 20 minutes'
walk. Turn right out of the station along Station road and walk about
100 yards to the T-Junction and the traffic lights. Turn left at the
junction and follow the road up to the large roundabout; go left up
Egham Hill. The main College entrance is on the left about a mile from
the roundabout, after the second footbridge.

**By Bus from Egham**

London Country buses 441 and 443 (Staines to Slough) stop near the
station and at the College main entrance. There is also a College bus
service, but tickets for this must be obtained in advance: they are
available from the College shop, and also from the Budgens store in
Egham. The College bus, like the taxis, leaves from the main car park
adjacent to the station.

**By Taxi from Egham**

There is a taxi rank immediately behind Egham station in the main
station car park; the A2B/Gemini Cars taxi offices can be found at 50,
Station Road on the opposite side to the station, and about 200 yards
from the station in the direction of Egham town centre. A2B taxis can
also be booked by telephone: call 01784 432222; other nearby taxi
companies include Allpoint Cars on 01784 432468 and Arrow Cars on 01784
436533.

**From Heathrow**

Taxis are available from Heathrow airport, 8 miles away, but can be
expensive. It is far better to book a taxi in advance (eg from A2B - see
above), in which case a fixed fare (currently £16-00) will be charged.
Alternatively take bus number 441 from Heathrow Central to the College,
or go by tube to Richmond and then take a train to Egham.