<b>Preliminary Call For Papers

Refereed Papers Track at 6th Annual OWASP AppSec Conference (Europe
2007)

Date: May 16th-17th, 2007

Location: Milan, Italy</b>

The Open Web Application Security Project (OWASP,
<http://www.owasp.org>) is dedicated to finding and fighting the causes
of insecure software. OWASP has dozens of projects and over 50 chapters
worldwide focused on application security. Our high quality tools and
documentation are used everywhere, including the freely available
book-length "Guide to Secure Web Applications and Services", the leading
web application penetration testing tool called "WebScarab", and an
advanced web application security training application called "WebGoat".

The OWASP Foundation, a not-for-profit charitable organization, ensures
the ongoing availability and support for this work.

The [OWASP AppSec
conferences](:Category:OWASP_AppSec_Conference "wikilink") bring
together application security experts, researchers and practitioners
from all over the world. Industry and academia can meet to discuss open
problems and new solutions in application security. The conferences
offer tutorials, keynotes, and invited presentations. As in 2006, the
OWASP AppSec Europe 2007 conference will feature a refereed papers
track. The goal of the refereed papers track is twofold:

  - to give academic researchers in web application security the
    opportunity to share their research results with practitioners, and
  - to give industry people the possibility to share experiences with
    the OWASP community.

Hence both research papers as well as experience papers pertaining to
all aspects of web application security are solicited. Papers should
describe new ideas, new implementations, or experiences related to web
application security.

Topics of interest include, but are not limited to:

  - Web application security
  - Threat modeling of web applications
  - Vulnerability analysis of web applications (code review, pentest,
    static analysis, scanning)
  - Countermeasures for web application vulnerabilities
  - Secure coding techniques
  - Static and dynamic analysis of web application technologies
  - Platform or language (e.g. Java, .NET) security features that help
    secure web applications
  - Open source framework features that help secure web applications
  - How to use databases securely in web applications
  - Experiences or new ideas on Secure Development Lifecycles (SDLC)
  - Experiences using web application security scanning or code analysis
    tools
  - Access control in web applications
  - Trusted computing solutions for web applications
  - Non-repudiation in web applications
  - Web services security
  - AJAX security
  - Security of Service Oriented Architectures

It is explicitly allowed to submit papers that have already been
published, but in a publication channel with a different audience. In
particular, papers that have already been presented at academic
conferences are welcomed, and will be refereed on how interesting and
valuable they are to an OWASP audience. Authors are encouraged to
motivate in the paper why they consider the paper relevant for the OWASP
audience.

For accepted papers, and where allowed by possibly existing copyrights
on the paper, the papers will be published in a proceedings distributed
as a technical report from the Katholieke Universiteit Leuven, Belgium.

Important dates (APPROXIMATE - will become final when the conference
date is decided):

  - Submission deadline (Draft Paper): Mar 1, 2007
  - Notification of acceptance: Mar 30, 2007
  - Final version due: April 15, 2007
  - Conference: May 16th & 17th

Instructions for authors:

Submissions should be at most 12 pages long in the Springer LNCS Style
for Proceedings and Other Multiauthor Volumes. Templates for preparing
papers in this style for LaTeX, Word, and other word processors can be
downloaded from:
<http://www.springer.com/sgw/cda/frontpage/0,11855,5-164-2-72376-0,00.html>
.

All submissions should be sent in Adobe Portable Document Format (pdf)
to Frank Piessens at Frank.Piessens_at_cs.kuleuven.be.

Programme Committee:

Sebastien Deleersnyder, Ascure Lieven Desmet, Katholieke Universiteit
Leuven Martin Johns, University of Hamburg Benjamin Livshits, Microsoft
Research Andre Marian, Ubizen Mattia Monga, University degli Studi di
Milano, Italy Johan Peeters, secappdev.org Frank Piessens, Katholieke
Universiteit Leuven (chair) Erik Poll, Radboud Universiteit Nijmegen
Maarten Rits, SAP Research Labs