## Mission

The OWASP Global Conferences Committee (GCC) exists to coordinate and
facilitate OWASP conferences and events worldwide.

## Membership

The Global Conferences Committee shall be comprised of representatives
as nominated by the OWASP membership in compliance with the process at
the [How to join a Committee page](How_to_Join_a_Committee "wikilink").
Once a Member has been nominated to the committee, the current members
shall vote on that Memberâ€™s application.

### Chair

The GCC Members shall elect a Chair to serve a term of 12 months at the
first meeting each calendar year.

## Responsibilities

### Members

  - Members are responsible for attending at least 75% of the regular
    scheduled meetings.
  - Members are responsible for voting

### Chair

  - Attend or send a GCC Representative to all OWASP Board Meetings
  - Schedule and conduct GCC Regular Meetings
  - Manage GCC Budget
  - Provide meeting minutes

## Regular Meetings

A regular meeting of the OWASP Global Conferences Committee shall be
held at least quarterly in each calendar year. Meetings will be
scheduled based on the availability of the majority of the members and
may be conducted in person and/or virtually. Additional regular meetings
may be called by the GCC Chair. Meetings shall be scheduled at least one
week in advance and will be open for any OWASP Member to attend.

A majority of the number of GCC Members shall constitute a quorum for
the transaction of GCC business. If quorum is not established, the chair
may adjourn the meeting.

### Minutes

Minutes of the meeting shall be recorded by the chair, or their designee
and made available to all OWASP members

## Voting

Any GCC Member can request a vote on an action. Any action taken by the
GCC shall be decided by the majority (50% + 1) of the GCC Members.
Voting will generally occur during regular meetings, however any votes
recorded via email shall be open for 24 hours or until a majority has
been established.

## Conflict of Interest

No GCC member shall be permitted to vote on matters involving a
conference they are organizing, their home chapter, or any self
identified matter where the objectivity of the member may be in
question. Any conflict of interest shall be entered into the minutes.

## Removal from Committee

A committee Member may be removed when

  - The Member participates in less than 50% of regular meetings in a
    calendar year
  - The Member does not participate in any regular meetings in a 90 day
    period without providing prior notice to the chair
  - A motion for removal is approved via a unanimous vote of the other
    committee Members

The Chair may be removed at any time by a majority vote of the other
committee members. A new temporary chair shall immediately be elected to
complete the term of the outgoing chair.

## Travel

From time to time, committee members may travel on behalf of the
committee and at the expense of the OWASP Foundation. Any such travel
shall first be approved by the Chair, availability of funds confirmed,
and notification of travel be provided to the other committee Members.
In the event that the Chair denies the request, or is unavailable,
travel may be approved by concurrence of any two GCC members
(non-inclusive of the traveling member) so long as funds are available.

Upon return, the traveling Member shall submit an expense report to the
Chair with receipts. Receipts should be uploaded to the relevant [google
docs
folder](https://docs.google.com/a/owasp.org/leaf?id=0B8FE6Oyqbn2cYmM5MGEzNGMtMjI5ZC00YTZlLWFlNWEtMTI2ZTYyZmFlOThm&hl=en_US)
along with an expense report ([GCC Expense Report
Template](https://docs.google.com/a/owasp.org/spreadsheet/ccc?key=0AsFE6Oyqbn2cdHRkdXBYYzQtVi1rNUZOVlhCbkxWNVE&hl=en_US)).

Expenses will be reimbursed according to the following:

  - Transportation (Airfare, POV, Train, Bus ect)
      - Any travel requiring air travel will have an allowance of 115%
        of the cheapest available flight (departing between 8am and
        11pm) from the traveling member's home city to the destination
        as determined by GCC Operations Support. Actual flight expenses
        will be reimbursed up to this allowance and may be booked either
        directly by OWASP or by the traveling member requiring receipts.
  - Personally Owned Vehicle (POV) usage will be reimbursed at $.50 a
    mile
  - Lodging
      - GCC traveling members shall book in the event hotel room block
        if available. If the event hotel block is not available,
        traveling members shall be reimbursed for actual expenses up to
        the greater of the event block rate or the average price of a
        single occupancy king bed room at a Hyatt, Hilton, Holliday Inn,
        and Marriott within 10 miles of the event venue (calculated by
        the GCC support staff). Hotel expenses will be covered for the
        duration of the event including the night before the event, and
        including the night of the last day of the event, to allow for
        full participation.
  - Meals/Incidental Expenses
      - Meals/Incidental expenses shall be reimbursed on actual
        expenditures with a daily cap as defined by the US General
        Services Administration
        (http://www.gsa.gov/portal/category/100120) or US Department of
        State Per Diem Rate
        (http://aoprals.state.gov/web920/per_diem.asp) for the
        destination.