**December 19 2012, Daily Grill - Downtown LA**

'''Final OWASP Meeting of 2012, Just Before the End of the World '''

Network with your OWASP peers as we celebrate the last days on earth,
according to the Mayan calendar. Or, if you are a non-believer, share
good stories and research with the most enlightened group of web
security folks west of the Mississippi. Operators are standing by.

**November 28 2012, Symantec Offices, Culver City**

**WCF Security – Securing your Service Oriented Architecture**

Any Service-Oriented Architecture (SOA) needs to support security
features that provide auditing, authentication, authorization,
confidentiality, and integrity for the messages exchanged between the
client and the service. Microsoft Windows Communication Foundation (WCF)
provides these security features by default for any application that is
built on top of the WCF framework. In this session, Adnan Masood will
discuss the WCF security features related to auditing and logging,
authentication, authorization, confidentiality, and integrity.

This talk is focused on WCF security features with code demonstration to
use behaviors and bindings toconfigure security for your WCF service.
Bindings and behaviors allow you to configure transfer security,
authentication, authorization, impersonation, and delegation as well as
auditing and logging. This presentation will help you understand basic
security-related concepts in WCF, what bindings and behaviors are and
how they are used in WCF, authorization and roles in the context of WCF,
impersonation and delegation in the context of WCF and what options are
available for auditing in WCF.

Targeted towards solution architects and developers, this talk will
provide you architectural guidanceregarding authentication,
authorization, and communication design for your WCF services, solution
patterns for common distributed application scenarios using WCF and
principles, patterns, and practices for improving key security aspects
in services.

**Speaker: Adnan Masood**

Adnan Masood works as a web architect / technical lead for a financial
institution where he develops SOA based middle-tier architectures,
distributed systems, and web-applications using Microsoft technologies.
He is a Microsoft Certified Trainer holding several technical
certifications, including MCPD (Enterprise Developer), MCSD .NET, and
SCJP-II. Adnan is attributed and published in print media and on the
Web; he also teaches Windows Communication Foundation (WCF) courses at
the University of California at San Diego and regularly presents at
local code camps and user groups. He is actively involved in the .NET
community as cofounder and president of the of San Gabriel Valley .NET
Developersgroup.

Adnan holds a Master’s degree in Computer Science; he is currently a
doctoral student working towards PhD in Machine Learning; specifically
discovering interestingness measures in outliers using Bayesian Belief
Networks. He also holds systems architecture certification from MIT and
SOA Smarts certification from Carnegie Melon University.

**October 29 2012, Symantec Offices, Culver City**

**Carpe Datum: Drinking from the espresso firehose we know as Shodan**

Have you ever stayed up until 5am fiendishly digging around on shodan? I
have. More times than I care to admit. I’m starting to find patterns.
Shodan is genius. It’s a glorious search engine that catalogs the
banners from TCP connections on several ports – for the entire IPV4
internet. This makes for some bodacious late night reading. The
findings, on the other hand, are in a lot of cases most heinous. SCADA,
Power company networks and controls, thousands of webcams, weed
growrooms, .gov/.mil border routers and sharepoint systems. It’s a
little overwhelming. I decided to sift it all through a strainer to make
it easier to take in. So I wrote a scraper script and a viewer to better
parse the results\! Come with me on an excellent adventure – but without
Bill or Ted – more like the haunted mansion ride, except all the ghosts
and spooks are systems or cameras left wide open on the internet. Did
you know you could telnet into hydrogen fuel cells? Neither did I\!

**Speaker: Dan Tentler**

**September 19 2012, Special Dinner Meeting with Los Angeles Chapters:
OWASP, ISSA, ISC2 and CSA**

**Why Software Still Stinks; Conclusions from a Decade of Research**

Insecure software applications are the biggest threat to data breaches &
the source of over 90% of all security vulnerabilities according to
NIST. Software security tools & training have been available for years.
So why do most organizations still produce insecure code? This session
discusses a 10-year research study and an Application Security Maturity
Model that documents how organizations mature over time and why so many
application security initiatives fail.

**Speaker: Ed Adams**

Ed Adams is a software executive with successful leadership experience
in various-sized organizations that serve the IT security and quality
assurance industries. He is a Ponemon Institute Fellow and founded the
Application Security Industry Consortium, Inc. (AppSIC), a non-profit
association established to define cross-industry application security
metrics and best practices. He sits on the board of the Massachusetts
North Shore Technology Council (NSTC), National Association of
Information Security Groups (NAISG), and the International Secure
Software Engineering Council (ISSECO).

**August 1 2012, Symantec Offices, Culver City**

**This will be about Black Hat/DEFCON recap.**

**June 27, 2012, Symantec Offices, Culver City**

**Flame Malware**

The discovery of the Flame malware that targets Middle Eastern
countries, predominantly Iran, has brought politically motivated threats
into the spot light again. In this talk I will discuss the Flame malware
and contrast it with other politically motivated threats we have seen. I
will discuss how Flame was discovered, what it is capable of and give
updates on the latest analysis. In addition I will talk about the
increasing use of cyber espionage and what that may mean for software
developers. Flame is peculiar in that it was written with a combination
of C++, Lua and sqlite. I will show how the threat uses these
technologies and how that differs from the malware we see every day.

**Speaker: Liam O Murchu**

Liam O Murchu is a manager of Security Response at Symantec. He has
appeared on CBS 60 Minutes about Stuxnet virus. He has also presented
about Stuxnet at Los Angeles chapters of OWASP and ISSA.
<http://www.cbsnews.com/video/watch/?id=7400892n>

**May 23, 2012 at 6:45PM. Symantec Offices, Culver City**

**Data Mining a Mountain of Zero Day Vulnerabilities**

Every day, software developers around the world, from Bangalore to
Silicon Valley, churn out millions of lines of insecure code. We used
static binary analysis on thousands of applications submitted to us by
large enterprises, commercial software vendors, open source projects,
and software outsourcers, to create an anonymized vulnerability data
set. By mining this data we can answer some interesting questions. Which
industries have the most secure and least secure code? What types of
mistakes do developers make most often? Which languages and platforms
have the apps with the most vulnerabilities? Should you be most worried
of internally built apps, open source, commercial software, or
outsourcers? These questions and many more will be answered as we tunnel
through zero day mountain.

**Speaker: Chris Wysopal**

Chris Wysopal, Veracode’s CTO and Co-Founder, is responsible for the
company’s software security analysis capabilities. In 2008 he was named
one of InfoWorld's Top 25 CTO's and one of the 100 most influential
people in IT by eWeek. One of the original vulnerability researchers and
a member of L0pht Heavy Industries, he has testified on Capitol Hill in
the US on the subjects of government computer security and how
vulnerabilities are discovered in software. He is an author of
L0phtCrack and netcat for Windows. He is the lead author of “The Art of
Software Security Testing” published by Addison-Wesley.

**April 25, 2012, OWASP Los Angeles Security Summit, Four Points by
Sheraton Los Angeles**

**March 21, 2012, Luminaria's Restaurant, Monterey Park**

**Building The DEF CON Network, Making A Sandbox For 10,000 Hackers**

We will cover on how the DEF CON network team builds a network from
scratch, in three days with very little budget. How this network
evolved, what worked for us, and what didnt work over the last ten
years. This network started as an idea, and after acquiring some kick
butt hardware, has allowed us to support several thousand users
concurrently. In addition I will cover the new WPA2 enterprise
deployment, what worked, and what didnt, and how the DEF CON team has
made the Rio network rock\!

**Speaker: David M. N. Bryan**

David M. N. Bryan has 10 years of computer security experience,
including pentesting, consulting, engineering, and administration. As an
active participant in the information security community, he volunteers
at DEF CON, where he designs and implements the firewall and network for
what is said to be the most hostile network environment in the world.
This network allows speakers, press, vendors, and others to gain access
to the Internet, without being hacked. In his spare time he runs the
local DEF CON group, DC612, is the president of Twincities Makers group,
and participates in the Minneapolis OWASP chapter.

**February 22, 2012, Symantec Offices, Culver City**

**SharePoint Hacking Diggity Project**

The SharePoint Hacking Diggity Project is a research and development
initiative dedicated to investigating the latest tools and techniques in
hacking Microsoft SharePoint technologies. This project page contains
downloads and links to our latest SharePoint Hacking research and free
security tools. Assessment strategies are designed to help SharePoint
administrators and security professionals identify common insecure
configurations and exposures introduced by vulnerable SharePoint
deployments.

**Speaker: Francis Brown**

Francis Brown, MCSE, CISA, CISSP, is responsible for overseeing the
company’s business operations as well as finance and administration
functions. He also manages Stach & Liu’s 6sigma service quality program
and leads internal practice development initiatives.

Before joining Stach & Liu, Francis worked in the Global Risk Assessment
team at Honeywell International where he performed network and
application penetration testing, product security evaluations, incident
response, and risk assessments of critical infrastructure. Prior to
that, Francis was a consultant with the Ernst & Young Advanced Security
Centers and conducted network, application, wireless, and remote access
penetration tests for Fortune 500 clients.

Francis has presented his research at leading conferences such as Black
Hat USA, DEFCON, InfoSec World, and has been cited in numerous industry
and academic publications.

Francis holds a Bachelor of Science and Engineering from the University
of Pennsylvania with a major in Computer Science and Engineering and a
minor in Psychology.

**January 25, 2012, Symantec Offices, Culver City**

**Cloud Security**

It is no surprise that the emergence of cloud computing and
virtualization are creating a noticeable buzz across the IT space.

Still, the cloud by itself is a mystery to many customers. When
information security is introduced to the mix, the picture becomes
Cloudy. Add compliance requirements such as PCI, and it's downright
Stormy\! In this presentation, Mr. Zigweid will discuss ways to achieve
data security in a cloud environment. This includes what a cloud
customer should watch out for and what they should expect from their
provider in order to meet compliance requirements.

**Speaker: Rob Zigweid**

Robert Zigweid is an accomplished developer and application tester with
advanced skills in the creation and analysis of systems architecture and
threat modeling. As a Senior Security Consultant at IOActive, he works
with clients to discover and solve network and application problems that
threaten their business goals and assets. In addition to his direct
efforts on penetration tests, security reviews, and network and
application audits, Zigweid contributes to the advancement of more
stable, secure systems through his research and development. He was a
co-founder of OSJava, is working on a JDBC driver and more robust Java
class loader, and has conducted groundbreaking research that will
further the formal understanding of application and network security for
audiences at varying levels of technical fluency