**\*\*December 18, 2013, Holiday Networking Party at Daily Grill -
Downtown LA**

Network with your OWASP peers as we celebrate the holidays and the end
of a great year for our Los Angeles Chapter. \*\*Free food and drinks.

**\*\*November 6, 2013, Symantec Offices, Culver City**

**Whiz, Bang, ZAP\! An introduction to OWASP's Zed Attack Proxy**

The OWASP Zed Attack Proxy (ZAP) is "an easy to use integrated
penetration testing tool for finding vulnerabilities in web
applications." The technology is comparable to IBM AppScan and HP
WebInspect - but free, open source and maintained by OWASP volunteers.
The project has seen a tremendous amount of development lately. Learn
about the tool, what it can do for you, and optionally bring your laptop
to follow along as we use it to test some (purposefully insecure) web
applications.

''' Speaker: Ben Walther

Ben Walther is a security engineer, with a background consulting and
teaching for Symantec, Cigital, and within higher education. He is the
co-author of the Web Security Testing Cookbook and an active contributor
to OWASP projects.

**\*\*October 2013** OWASP Monthly Meeting - re-scheduled to November
meeting.

**September 18, 2013, OWASP-ISSA Joint Meeting, The Olympic Collection
Banquet & Conference Center, West Los Angeles, CA**

''' Demonstration of Common Web Vulnerabilities using WebGoat.NET '''

Developers cannot defend against unknown threats. Understanding
vulnerabilities and security controls is an absolute necessity – not
only for developers, but for Architects, QA and anyone else involved in
the creation of software. This talk starts by making a strong argument
for developer education, and how it fits into any organization’s SDLC.
From there, we discuss other OWASP resources and projects dedicated to
developer education, and an in-depth discussion of OWASP WebGoat.NET –
an ASP.NET specific re-design of OWASP which meets the needs and
addresses the challenges of modern application security training
programs.

''' Speaker: Jerry Hoff, Whitehat Security, VP, Static Code Analysis
Division; Managing Partner / Co-Founder '''

Jerry Hoff is Whitehat Security, VP, Static Code Analysis Division;
Managing Partner / Co-Founder, INFRARED SECURITY; Former Developer
Security Consulting & FTE Across The Board; Over 10,000 Hours Delivering
Technical Training; MS In Computer Science, Washington University

**August 28, 2013, Symantec Offices, Culver City**

''' Layer 7 DDos Attacks '''

In this talk we will examine different DoS attack techniques used
against cloud services. Many attacks discussed in the presentation
target the application layer of the service, are highly efficient and
asymmetric. In some cases, a single HTTP request of less than 50 bytes
is sufficient to knock out a server until reboot. In addition to
describing the attacks, we will also investigate the application design
issues that lead to vulnerability, and demonstrate coding fixes as well
as cloud based defenses that can be used to mitigate the problem.

''' Speaker: Cassio Goldschmidt is a former president of the OWASP Los
Angeles Chapter '''

**July 24 2013, Symantec Offices, Culver City**

**Security of Mobile Ad Hoc and Wireless Sensor Networks**

*' Speaker: Edward Bonver*'

Edward Bonver, CISSP, CSSLP Senior Principal Software Engineer Product
Security Team, Office of the CTO Symantec Corporation

**June 26 2013, Symantec Offices, Culver City**

I know where you live, I know what you like, I know your email password,
and I know your MEID. Why? Because you told me, and you will tell me
again in 5 minutes. You are the loudest guy in the room, and your mobile
in your pocket is betraying you. I will be talking about the inherit
vulnerabilities in mobile devices and how an attacker can exploit them
easily. I will show you live demos of exploits and show you how to
protect yourself.... if you can.

*' Speaker: Nicholas Lennox*'

Name: Nick \#UNRESOLVED QUERY ERROR\#

Twitter: @MrB0t

IP: 65.196.127.225 located in Arlington, United State // Probably VPN
Coordinates: Thirty-eight degrees fifty-seven minutes six point five
seconds north, seventy-seven degrees eight minutes forty-four seconds
west

Country: United States

City: Langley

**May 29 2013, Symantec Offices, Culver City**

**Cloud Computing – Security and Interoperability Perspectives**

Many organizations are evaluating and migrating toward cloud computing
solutions. In 2013, some the key challenges pertain to security and
interoperability. Open cloud standards can help manage risks, while
fostering efficient solution delivery.

Steven Woodward shares updates from numerous international cloud
standards related organizations. In Canada, he leads several of the
cloud computing initiatives in both the private and public sectors. This
includes being one of the founding board members of the Cloud Security
Alliance Canadian Chapter.

Steven describes key cloud ecosystems models; highlighting where
security considerations fit, along with different perspectives on
interoperability. Several real-life scenarios will be used, highlighting
cloud concepts, security, interoperability and the impacts these can
have on commitments (functionality, costs, time-to-value and quality).
Service Agreements and Service Level Agreements will also be addressed
to identify where you may find security and interoperability
considerations specified in the contracts.

The presentation is designed to be interactive and will include some
group activities to generate discussions and identify practical
solutions.

Attendees of the presentation will leave with a better understanding of
cloud security and interoperability considerations, plus be aware of
reference material and models that help address those challenges.

*' Speaker: Steven Woodward*'

Steven Woodward is CEO and founder of Cloud Perspectives and is the
Canadian Cloud Council Director of Cloud Governance. He was recently
announced as the Chief Cloud Officer for “the Politburo”, a new
innovative cloud provider based in Canada. He is a leading contributor
to the National Institute of Standards for Technology (NIST), TM Forum,
Object Management Group Cloud Standards Customer Council and the
International Telecommunication Union (ITU) Joint Collaboration Activity
cloud computing working groups.

Steven represents the Canadian Advanced Technology Alliance at the
Shared Services Canada Architecture Advisory Committee and is helping
define the Canadian Federal Government Cloud Computing Strategy. In
addition to cloud standards and best practices guides, he authored the
“Cloud Measurement” chapter in the 2012 CRC Press published book, “The
IFPUG Guide to IT and Software Measurement.” In 2010 he was elected to
the International Function Point Users Group (IFPUG) board of directors,
where he is responsible for conferences and formed a, IFPUG metrics
cloud computing community.

A frequent international instructor, presenter and leader, he continues
fostering cloud collaboration in the industry and academia. From Los
Angeles, he is travelling to Maui as keynote at the IEEE System of
Systems Engineering conference.

**April 24 2013, Symantec Offices, Culver City**

**Tales from the Crypt(o): Lessons About Secrecy from Julius Caesar to
Moxie Merlinspike**

*' Speaker\#1: Tin Zaw*'

Tin Zaw is the former president of OWASP Los Angeles Chapter.

*' Speaker\#2: Albert Tu*'

**Honeypots along side IT security operations**

Honeypots commonly take a strategic backseat to IT security operations.
This has not stopped community based security professionals and
enthusiasts to harness the advantages of the honeypot to form world wide
networks capturing and sourcing malicious behavior. Communities that
have become vendors found opportunity in higher quality IP lists as well
providing deep expertise to provide solutions to anti-fraud behavior.
The combination is always worth consideration if you are a customer.

*' Speaker\#2: Albert Tu*'

Albert Tu is an information security professional at Farmers Insurance
Exchange. His background is in vulnerability and risk management with a
good amount of programming. He has a passion for solving problems of all
sorts.

**March 20 2013, Joint meeting with ISSA, Monterey Park**

'''Securing Mobile Apps for the Enterprise '''

Securing Mobile Apps – that’s the big discussion today. The last couple
of years enterprises have been attempting to meet this requirement by
deploying client-intensive MDMs (Mobile Device Managers). This has left
the apps being utilized by partners, suppliers and customers –
completely unprotected. How do we meet the challenge of applying
security authentication standards to these un-managed devices. This is
what will be discussed/demo’d.

*' Speaker: Garret Grajek*'

Garret Grajek is a CISSP-certified security engineer with more than 20
years of experience in the information security and authentication
space. As Chief Technical Officer and Chief Operating Officer for
SecureAuth Corporation, Garret is responsible for the strategic
direction of the company’s Identity Enforcement product offerings.

**February 20 2013, Symantec Offices, Culver City**

**Secure Password Storage Practices**

**(or Why "Hashing + Salting \!= Secure Passwords")**

Many web applications require passwords that are hard for users to
remember, cumbersome to type, yet easy for hackers to crack. With
affordable, lightning-fast hardware aiding hackers, we have recently
seen a number of large organizations in the news for user-password
security failures. Join us as we discuss common attacks on password
lists/tables as well as some password storage practices that can make
any cracking attempts not worth the attackers’ time.

*' Speaker: iMan Louis*'

iMan is a Senior Consultant with Cigital Inc., where he conducts
security code reviews, ethical hacking, and web application security
assessments for some of the largest global corporations. He has also
developed courseware for Cigital's Defensive Programming course series
and delivered instructor-led training for many years. He brings 12 years
of experience in software development and application security. iMan has
recently moved from San Francisco to the Greater L.A. area and is
looking forward to being an active member of our L.A. OWASP chapter.

**January 23 2013, Symantec Offices, Culver City**

**Top Ten Web Defenses**

We cannot “firewall” or “patch” our way to secure websites. In the past,
security professionals thought firewalls, Secure Sockets Layer (SSL),
patching, and privacy policies were enough. Today, however, these
methods are outdated and ineffective, as attacks on prominent,
well-protected websites are occurring every day. Website developers must
learn to code in a secure fashion to have any chance of providing
organizations with proper defenses in the current threat-scape. The
session will provide specific tips and guidelines to make website code
both low risk and less vulnerable.

*' Speaker: Jim Manico*'

Jim is the VP of Security Architecture for WhiteHat Security. Jim is
also the host of the OWASP Podcast Series, is the committee chair of the
OWASP Connections Committee, is the project manager of the OWASP
Cheatsheet series, and is a significant contributor to several
additional OWASP projects. Jim provides secure coding and developer
awareness training for WhiteHat Security using his 8+ years of
experience delivering developer-training courses for SANS, Aspect
Security and others. He brings 16 years of database-driven Web software
development and analysis experience to WhiteHat and OWASP as well. Jim
works on the beautiful island of Kauai, Hawaii where he lives with his
wife Tracey.