\---December 2015,

\---November 2015,

\---September 2015,

\---August 26, 2015, Symantec Offices, Culver City

`Speaker: Chris Holland`

`  Topic:`

Scourge of the Internet since the late 90s, DDoS attacks have grown in
magnitude and sophistication. This talk goes over basic symptoms,
motivations, evolving trends in attack vectors and actors, pluggable
amplification vectors, DIY hardening and mitigation architectures, and
classifications of vendors in the mitigation space.

Speaker: Leif Dreizler

Topic: Inherent differences between the hacker and developer mentality

Abstract: Leif Dreizler, BugCrowd, explores the inherent differences
between the hacker and developer mentality. In this discussion, the
audience will hear from a former breaker and fixer of security flaws on
how developers who acknowledge the existence of ‘The Bogeyman’ come that
much closer to being active participants in ensuring their company’s
security, rather than passive victims. During his talk you'll learn...
how to decrease friction between dev and security teams, how
crowdsourced security testing merges into the SDLC, how organizations
can increase ROI on security testing with a pay for performance model
and more.

Speaker bio: Leif is a Senior Security Engineer at Bugcrowd, the
innovator in crowdsourced security testing for the enterprise, where he
works to customize and support security testing solutions for Bugcrowd
clients. Prior to Bugcrowd, Leif worked as Senior Application Security
Engineer at Redspin, performing application security assessments. During
his time at Redspin he served as the Application Team Lead, working with
clients large and small at the engineering and sales level. Leif is an
OWASP speaker and member, and contributes to the Firebug project. Leif
attended the University of California where he studied Computer Science.
Most recently, Leif spoke at Bsides-SF and invited to be part of the
department’s “Array of Talks” panel, a speaker series that he helped
develop.

\---June 24 2015, Symantec Offices, Culver City

Speaker: Joe Rozner

Topic: Langsec and You

Abstract: Langsec attempts to solve specific vulnerability classes
caused by specially crafted user input being accepted by an application
that has an undesired or unintended effect. Langsec and You will
describe many of these vulnerability classes specifically focusing on
XSS and SQL Injection due to their prevalence and relevance to the
audience. We will dive into exactly why these vulnerability classes
exist and how to use langsec to help solve them. This will involve a
brief introduction or refresher to formal language theory before
concluding with a survey of some of the tools available to start
implementing langsec solutions for yourself.

Speaker bio: As an experienced software engineer with experience across
many languages and paradigms Joe has focused his career on rapid
prototyping and independent security research. He’s developed custom
system call level sandboxes, rich web applications, and applications at
all levels between. A strong interest in computer languages and
implementation of them has led to a solid foundation and further
cultivation in the area of language implementation and language
security. This combination of experience has allowed Joe to lead teams
in designing and creating truly unique products and solving difficult
problems.

\---May 27 2015, Symantec Offices, Culver City

Speaker: Kelly Fitzgerald

Topic: Clever: Securing the Savvy Vector

Abstract: Depending on your age you may remember Superman or Office
Space and the clever scheme to take the portions of a penny from huge
number of transactions in order to un-noticeably get rich quick. What
about cybercrime in the real world? In this talk we will look at the
clever side of cybercrime. Real world examples, events and protection.
This information will help you as a security professional look at your
world with a clever view and make you better at securing your world from
the clever, savvy vector.

Speaker bio: Kelly has a BS in Computer Science from CSUSB. She was
awarded a full academic scholarship from the National Science
Foundation. In her senior year of college she took a job at EvidentData
doing computer forensics. From there she fell in love with the dark side
and purposely went in persuit of a career in computer security looking
at the bleedy places where people and technology bruise. Kelly has
worked at Symantec since 2003 and has two single-filer patents pending.

\---April 29 2015, Symantec Offices, Culver City

Speaker: Kunal Anand

Speaker bio: Kunal is the co-founder and CTO of Prevoty, an application
security platform. Prior to that, he was the Director of Technology at
the BBC Worldwide, overseeing engineering and operations across the
company’s global Digital Entertainment and Gaming initiatives. Kunal
also has several years of experience leading security, data and
engineering at Gravity, MySpace and NASA’s Jet Propulsion Laboratory.
His work has been featured in Wired Magazine and Fast Company. He
continues to develop the patented security technologies that power
Prevoty’s core products. Kunal received a B.S. from Babson College.

Topic: Beyond the Perimeter: The reality of the new application security
landscape

Abstract: Web applications are dynamic, distributed and perhaps most
importantly - the heart of every business in the post-PC era. These
applications collect, process and persist information from a myriad of
third-party services and users. From an adversary's perspective, the
attack surface has never been more tantalizing. Today, a security model
entirely predicated on applying controls and pattern-matching at the
perimeter is at best a zero-sum game; applying probabilistic logic
highlights that pattern matching techniques cannot prevent attacks
created by content and SQL fuzzers. This talk will explore an
alternative approach to identifying bad actors at runtime via the
implementation of language security models to prevent attacks like XSS
and SQLi without relying on past definitions and signatures. We’ll cover
the tradeoffs, discuss performance and review the challenges of modern
application security.

\---March 25,2015, Microsoft Office, Playa Del Rey, CA Speaker:Jeff
Williams is the founder and CTO of Contrast Security Speaker bio: Jeff
Williams is the founder and CTO of Contrast Security, bringing the power
of instrumentation and real time analytics to secure your application
portfolio. Previously, Jeff was a founder and CEO of Aspect Security. He
also served as Global Chairman of the OWASP Foundation where he created
many open-source standards, tools, libraries, and guidelines – including
the OWASP Top Ten, WebGoat, ESAPI, XSS CheatSheet, ASVS and more. Jeff
welcomes hearing from you and may be reached directly at
jeff.williams@contrastsecurity.com.

Topic:Why Your AppSec Experts Are Killing You

Software development has been transformed by practices like Continuous
Integration and Continuous Integration, while application security has
remained trapped in expert-based waterfall mode. In this talk, Jeff will
show you how you can evolve into a “Continuous Application Security”
organization that generates assurance automatically across an entire
application security portfolio. Jeff will show you how to bootstrap the
“sensor-model-dashboard” feedback loop that makes real time,
continuous application security possible. He will demonstrate the
approach with a new \*free\* tool called Contrast for Eclipse that
brings the power of instrumentation-based application security testing
directly into the popular IDE. Check out “Application Security at DevOps
Speed and Portfolio Scale” for some background.

\---March 11,2015, Symantec Offices, Culver City

Speaker: Jerry Hoff, VP of the Static Code Analysis Division at WhiteHat
Security Speaker Bio: Jerry Hoff is the Principal Security Strategist at
WhiteHat Security. Prior to WhiteHat Security, Jerry co-founded Infrared
Security, a specialist in application security and next-generation
static analysis technologies. His work experience also includes a number
of financial firms including Morgan Stanley Asia where he was on the
global Security Architecture team based out of Hong Kong. He has more
than a decade of experience in application security consulting, and has
taught at Washington University’s CAIT program delivering security and
development classes for thousands of developers. Jerry is a frequent
speaker at numerous security events around the globe, and is a regular
OWASP contributor, where he leads up the OWASP Application Tutorial
Series and WebGoat.NET. Jerry holds a Master's degree in Computer
Science from Washington University in St. Louis.

Topic: Web Attacks at Scale in 2015 (Alternative Title: Web Security
Bootcamp)

This talk is an attacker-centric presentation demonstrating how modern
pen-testing tools such as OWASP Zap, Browser Exploitation Framework
(BeEF) and sqlmap can be used to automate web attacks at scale.
Reenactments of some of the most publicized attacks in recent history
will be conducted to ensure participants understand and absorb how these
attacks are taking place. Full exploits using these tools and more will
be demonstrated, and a discussion of solutions will follow.

\---February 25,2015, Symantec Offices, Culver City

Speaker: David Maman Mr. Maman is co-founder and CTO at GreenSQL, a
leader in unified database security solutions. He is a recognized
international expert in computer security advising companies on threat
management, real-time network protection, advanced network design, and
security architecture. David has founded a number of high-tech start-up
companies, including Vanadium-Soft, Preacos, and Moksai. As a senior
technology director for Fortinet, a leading international IT security
firm, Mr. Maman provided consulting services to global businesses and
opened new international regions. He was the information security
manager for Bezeq, a national telecommunications company, and the chief
scientist at Ofek, a leading Israeli IT and security consulting firm.

Topic: WAF Isn't Enough. The Multi-Faceted Approach to Defend against
SQL Injection Attacks

WAFs are essential security mechanisms used on almost all commercial
websites today. Despite the excellent protection they offer against many
types of attacks, WAFs are inadequate to protect against today’s
sophisticated SQL Injection (SQLi) attacks. This is because,
fundamentally, a WAF does not understand database commands or database
structure. Its protection is limited to a black list of blocked
signatures. Even if a WAF did provide complete protection from web
access, it still would be inadequate for database protection, because
databases are accessed from many sources, not just from web-based
applications. Attendees will learn best practices for defending against
SQLi attacks using a comprehensive approach of:

` Database firewalls`
` Pattern learning processes`
` Separation of duties`
` Risk-based policies`
` Masking of sensitive information`