**---December 13, 2017 Microsoft Office**

<u>*Speaker*</u>:

<u>*Topic*</u>:

**---November 29, 2017 Symantec Offices, Culver City**

<u>*Speaker*</u>: **Robert Lee**

Robert E. Lee (Twitter: @robert e lee) is a seasoned leader and
solutions-driven professional with over 25 years of experience in
information technology and security. He is passionate about using
security to enable business, manage risk, and protect assets and
privacy.Robert is affiliated with the non-profit ISECOM organization and
has contributed to open source projects such as OSSTMM, Unicornscan, and
Sockstress. As a Sr Technical Program Manager with Twitter (since
July2016), his current focus is on security controls that can help
reduce ATO and other unwanted fraud in online applications.

<u>*Topic*</u>: **[Detect and Contain: Combating
Account Takeover](https://www.owasp.org/index.php/Los_Angeles_Presentation_Archive#2017)**

In your environment, do you really know Who is doing What, from Where?
How confident are you in your authentication controls and anomalous
behavior detection? Does your behavior monitoring solution have the
right data to give you relevant actionable findings? Are you overly
burdening your users in the name of security,while still leaving them
unprotected? This talk will shine a light on very common identity,
authentication, and link-analysis practices that inhibit us from
properly detecting threats, and ultimately, containing them.It will then
introduce Risk Based Authorization as a model for online authentication
and authorization.

**---October 25, 2017 Riot Games**

<u>*Speaker*</u>: **Mahesh Babu**

Mahesh is responsible for growing Contrast Protect. He takes every
opportunity to tell everyone how Contrast has fundamentally changed
application security for the first time since he started working in
security 10+ years ago. Mahesh has seen the industry evolve as a
researcher, consultant, and practitioner within a large bank. He began
his career as a security researcher at the CERIAS center at Purdue
University. He then went on to build and scale large security & privacy
programs a Senior Manager & architect for HSBC Information Security &
Risk. He also spent time as a consultant at Deloitte and Booz & Company.
Mahesh has a BS in Computer Science and MS in Information Security from
Purdue University and an MBA from Duke University.

<u>*Topic*</u>: **[Struts, OSS &
You](https://www.owasp.org/index.php/Los_Angeles_Presentation_Archive#2017)**

What we are learning from the Equifax breach and recent Struts 2
vulnerabilities and what you can do to step up your assessment &
remediation efforts. As you may already know, the root cause of the
Equifax breach was a web application security issue tied to a widely
used software framework called Apache Struts 2. Teams everywhere
continue to see these issues and exploit attempts from all over the
world. In this session you will:

  - Get the inside scoop on what we know about recent events
  - Understand the exploits at a deeper level
  - Get guidance on how to structure your remediation efforts

**---September 2017 Symantec Offices, Culver City**

<u>*Speaker*</u>: **Scott Stender**

Scott Stender is the leader of NCC Group's Cryptography Services
practice. Scott co-founded iSEC Partners and joined NCC Group when it
was acquired in 2010. Prior to iSEC, Scott worked in software
development and security consulting in roles at Microsoft and
@stake.Scott has helped organizations around the world create secure
systems, including notable projects on major operating systems,
cryptographic libraries, and several of the world's most critical
applications. He has led projects across the full development lifecycle
and throughout the technology stack ranging from requirements to release
and hypervisors to hypertext.Scott’s broad research output has advanced
both the security analysis of core technologies and the process of
secure software engineering. He has contributed papers and talks, on
topics ranging from practical attacks against Kerberos to securing
legacy technology, to a number of leading security conferences and
periodicals.

<u>*Topic*</u>: **[Securely Deploying
TLS 1.3](https://www.owasp.org/index.php/Los_Angeles_Presentation_Archive#2017)**

TLS 1.2 has been putting the S in HTTPS and other protocols since August
of 2008. Though TLS is arguably the most successful security protocol in
deployment, it has fallen prey to many attacks in the past decade. The
Internet Engineering Task Force has been working to make TLS both faster
and more secure, and will soon release an updated version to the world.
TLS 1.3 is coming and will have a wide range of impacts for enterprises.
This talk will help you prepare by providing:

  - An overview of major changes in TLS 1.3
  - An explanation of 0-RTT and how its performance improvements will
    impact the security of your servers and applications
  - A deep-dive into important configuration options and their security
    impacts
  - A guide to security monitoring in a TLS 1.3 world

**---August 23, 2017 Riot Games**

<u>*Speaker*</u>: Mike Milner

Mike has always loved taking things apart and (usually) putting them
back together. Throughout his career in business and government Mike has
experienced the breadth of opportunities technology and data
intelligence have created. Mike is the Co-Founder and Chief Technology
Officer at IMMUNIO, where he gets to focus on building systems to keep
the internet secure. Between fighting cybercrime for the Canadian
government and working for security agencies overseas, Mike has
developed a deep understanding of the global security landscape and how
the underground economy dictates hacks and ultimately drives breaches.
This unique experience paired with his technical background helped Mike
uncover what the next eneration of security software should look like in
IMMUNIO. Prior to founding IMMUNIO, Mike was a lead member of the
technical staff at Salesforce.com where he gained insight into the
business side of web applications. He also served as a software engineer
at Canonical, working on the world’s most popular free operating system,
Ubuntu, following his time serving both the Canadian and UK Government.

<u>*Topic*</u>: **[Law & Order: Observing and Protecting Web
Applications](https://www.owasp.org/index.php/Los_Angeles_Presentation_Archive#2017)**

In the early 90s, two great things happened: The birth of the World Wide
Web, and the start ofthe Law & Order TV Series. Both have changed and
evolved over time to reflect, and in somecases prompt changes in our
society. Law & Order has always been a great show, because it looks at
the broader spectrum of howthe law works. In much the same way, we as an
industry are paying more attention to the broader field of how to
protect the web from attack. It’s not just tools and technology - it’s
how the tools and tech fit into a broader security process. This talk
looks at how appsec has changed over the years, from the first web sites
online, to how things are moving into the future. How new tools and
techniques are enabling tighter collaboration between the Law & Order of
application security, and enabling new workflows like CI/CD and
DevSecOps.

**---July 19 2017 Verizon Digital Media Services**

<u>*Speaker:*</u> **David Caissy**

David Caissy is a web application penetration tester with in-depth
developer and IT Security background spanning over 16 years. He has
extensive experience in conducting vulnerability assessments and
penetration tests as well as providing training globally, amongst
numerous other teaching engagements. He has worked for a central bank,
the Department of National Defense, various government agencies and
private companies. David has been teaching web application security in
colleges, conferences and for many government agencies over the last
decade.

<u>*Topic:*</u> **The New and Improved OWASP Top 10**

First released in 2003, the OWASP Top 10 has since become OWASP's main
flagship project. With minor updates in 2004 and 2007 followed by major
releases in 2010 and 2013, the Top 10 was due for a revision in 2017
that would better reflect the current web application security risks.
This new release lives up to the expectations by improving the
classification of application vulnerabilities while focusing more on the
lack of protections, often highlighted in vulnerability assessments and
penetration tests.This presentation about the new and improved top 10
most critical web application security risks will cover all 10 items
while focusing on the improvements from the previous version.

**---June 28, 2017 Riot Games**

<u>*Panel:*</u> **Edward Bonver, Stu Schwartz, Aaron Guzman, Tony
Trummer -** moderated by **Richard Greenberg**

**Richard Greenberg** is the OWASP Los Angeles Chapter Leader and
the President of ISSA-Los Angeles. He has worked diligently to bring
together the various Southern California IT and InfoSec organizations to
enhance their collaboration efforts, to help reach new IT and InfoSec
professionals. His day job is the Information Security Officer for LA
County Public Health.

**Edward Bonver** is OWASP Los Angeles chapter board member and lead,
and is a co-organizer of OWASP California regional application security
conferences and summits, and a frequent speaker at global security
events and conferences. His security community contributions include
active participation in groups like OWASP, SAFECode, (ISC)2, IEEE Center
for Secure Design, and more. He CISSP and CSSLP certifications, a
master’s degree in computer science from California State University,
Northridge, and a bachelor’s degree in computer science from Rochester
Institute of Technology.

**Stu Schwartz** has over 20 years experience as a programmer and over
10 years as an application security practitioner. As part of the product
security team, Stu worked with application teams across the company
promoting application software security.  His responsibilities include
teaching secure coding and security testing classes, working with
various security tools and coordinating external penetration tests. Stu
holds certifications in CISSP & CSSLP. He is also between gigs and would
be a valuable assist to your organization.

**Tony Trummer** currently leads the Security team at ***Tinder*** in
West Hollywood. As a penetration tester, Tony previously helped to start
LinkedIn's AppSec program and later led their IR team. Tony has spoken
at conferences around the world, including DefCon, BlackHat, AppSec
Cali, AppSec USA and Hack In the Box.

**Aaron Guzman** is a Principal Security Consultant from the Los Angeles
area with expertise in web app security, mobile app security, and
embedded security. He has spoken at a number of conferences world wide
which include Defcon, AppSec EU, AppSec USA, HackFest, Security Fest,
HackMiami, AusCERT as well as a number of BSides events. Aaron leads the
OWASP Embedded Application Security project; providing practical
guidance to address the most common firmware security bugs to the
embedded and IoT community. Follow Aaron’s latest research on twitter at
@scriptingxss

<u>*Topic*</u>**: [What DOES it Take to Produce Secure
Software](https://www.owasp.org/index.php/Los_Angeles_Presentation_Archive#2017)**

In today's technologically diverse, rapidly evolving and incredibly
complex world, software makers face many challenges when it comes to
producing secure software offerings. Many software security tools and
services vendors want to sell you their silver bullet solutions, that
supposedly solve the software security problem. There are a number of
security certifications out there which are meant to help you address
the problem. There are many security consultants and subject matter
experts who will tell you how to do it right; there are books and
magazines, podcasts, webinars, security conferences, meetups, YouTube
videos aimed at helping you, while confusing you even further\! So as a
software maker, how do you tackle this problem? Where do you begin? How
do you advance? How do you make sense of it all? What DOES it take to
produce secure software? This OWASP LA panel consists of people who
spent their entire careers in the trenches exploring and being
consistently challenged  by this problem space. The panelists will share
their success and failure stories, as well as philosophical views based
on their individual experiences from operating in diverse environments,
trying to figure out that same question: What DOES it take?

**---May 24, 2017 Verizon Digital Media Services**

<u>Opening Talk</u>: Stuart Schwartz: [Security in the
News](https://www.owasp.org/index.php/Los_Angeles_Presentation_Archive#2017)

<u>*Speaker:*</u> **Shane MacDougall**

Shane MacDougall has over 28 years experience as an information security
professional, both as an attacker and a defender. His current focus in
on threat intelligence, an area in which he has created, implemented,
and run programs for two major Fortune 500 companies. He has lectured at
security conferences internationally, and is the owner of two black
badges from DEFCON. His book on social engineering is coming out this
summer.

<u>*Topic*</u>**: [Threat Intelligence on the
Cheap](https://www.owasp.org/index.php/Los_Angeles_Presentation_Archive#2017)**

Threat intelligence is a phrase that these days seems to be one of the
buzz words de jour. Throw in IoT, big data, cloud, and Docker, and you
pretty much have Infosec Yahtzee. But what is a meaningful threat
intelligence program for your company? Why spend six figures for the
latest TI feeds from the ultra hackers tracking down APTs, when can you
roll your own for pennies on the dollar? In this presentation we’ll
discuss how to define threat intelligence, how you can optimize your
practice to reduce noise, what sources you can get for free (or close to
free), how to automate a lot of the intelligence that you get, and
perhaps most important, making that intelligence actionable. We will
also discuss mistakes others, including your presenter, have made, and
how to avoid these and other common pitfalls.

**---April 26, 2017 Riot Games HQ, Los Angeles**

<u>*Speaker:*</u> **Jack Mannino**

Jack is the Chief Executive Officer at nVisium and loves solving
problems in the field of application security. With experience building,
breaking, and securing software, he founded nVisium in 2009 to invent
new and more efficient ways of protecting software. Jack is an active
mobile and wearable security researcher and focuses on creating
techniques for making both web and mobile application security scale
effectively.

<u>*Topic*</u>**: [Security In The Land of
Microservices](https://www.owasp.org/index.php/Los_Angeles_Presentation_Archive#2017)**

Microservices offer a lot of benefits for deploying large-scale
applications, but implementing a secure architecture that scales over
time can be challenging. Services are highly decoupled from each other
as well as producers and consumers of data moving throughout the
architecture. Data contracts between services are often blurry, and data
sharing between microservices require careful consideration around
access patterns and boundaries between related services. New services
come, new services go. Some are deployed to containers, some to servers,
and some are serverless. Your developers, data scientists, and
infrastructure team are all empowered to move quickly and ship new
services. Your job is to make sure all of the above happens in a secure
and sane way.

In this presentation, we will discuss the challenges with securing
microservices and present solutions to make security a seamless and
frictionless part of scaling your architecture. Using real-world
examples of successes and failures while building a microservice
architecture, we will discuss what translates well from monolithic
design to microservices, and the bad habits you should leave behind. We
will demonstrate how to build authentication into a microservice
architecture and how to implement a granular authorization scheme that
will work effectively as you introduce new services. At the end of this
presentation, you’ll understand what separates microservices from
traditional monolithic applications and understand the problem space
from a secure architectural perspective.

**---March 22, 2017 Symantec Offices, Culver City**

*<u>Speaker</u>*: **Jeff Williams**

A pioneer in application security, Jeff Williams has more than 20 years
of experience in software development and security. He is the co-founder
and CTO of Contrast Security, a revolutionary application security
product that enhances software with the power to defend itself, check
itself for vulnerabilities, and join a security command and control
infrastructure. Williams is also a founder and major contributor to
OWASP, where he served as the Chair of the OWASP Board for 8 years and
created the OWASP Top 10, OWASP Enterprise Security API, OWASP
Application Security Verification Standard, XSS Prevention Cheat Sheet,
and many other widely adopted free and open projects. Jeff holds a BA
from Virginia, an MA from George Mason, and a JD from Georgetown.

<u>*Topic*</u>: **[Turning Security into Code with Dynamic Binary
Instrumentation](https://www.owasp.org/index.php/Los_Angeles_Presentation_Archive#2017)**

AppSec has a serious math problem. We’re introducing vulnerabilities
faster than we can find them. And we’re finding them faster than we can
fix them. With software development accelerating and 11 billion new
lines of code being written in 2017, this won’t end well. Some
organizations have tried using perimeter defenses rather than improving
their SDLC, but they don’t know what they’re protecting. A possible
improvement is to feed vulnerability information into perimeter
defenses, but it’s a correlation nightmare. Fortunately, with dynamic
binary instrumentation it’s possible to unify vulnerability and attack
detection – providing a high-confidence method of preventing
vulnerabilities from being exploited. In this talk, we’ll get under the
hood of this technique and also explore how it affects the math of your
application security program.

**---February 22, 2017 Symantec Offices, Culver City**

<u>*Speaker*</u>: **Eli Mezei**

Eli is an Executive Partner at Independent Security Evaluators, where he
manages analyst and client activities, including assessment work and
some research initiatives. Prior to joining Independent Security
Evaluators, Mr. Mezei managed risk and research operations for one of
the largest commodity trading advisors in the world. Mr. Mezei is one of
the organizers of IoT Village, the popular new hacking concept focused
on connected devices, as well as an organizer of SOHOpelessly Broken,
the first ever router hacking contest at esteemed security conference
DEF CON. Mr. Mezei holds an M.S. from The Johns Hopkins University.

<u>*Topic*</u>: **[Hacking
Healthcare](https://www.owasp.org/index.php/Los_Angeles_Presentation_Archive#2017)**

In this session, we present findings from a long term security research
study in healthcare, in which we discovered that adversaries can deploy
cyber attacks that result in harm or fatality to patients. Over the
course of 24 months, we investigated 12 hospitals, 2 healthcare data
facilities, 2 medical devices and host of supporting applications and
technologies. Our focus was to (a) determine the feasibility of attacks
against patient health, (b) determine the contextual is- sues from both
technical and business perspectives, and (c) articulate the solution.We
discovered that the healthcare industry is pursuing the wrong security
mission, with an almost exclusive focus on protecting patient data, yet
almost no consideration of protecting patient health. We identified a
number of security vulnerabilities which, if exploited, would result in
patient harm or fatality. We also identified a very wide range of
business and industry shortcomings, which lead to the introduction of
such security vulnerabilities. Notably, we also published a blueprint,
which is an actionable, step-by-step guide to help a healthcare
organization of any size migrate to a more robust defense posture.This
session provides a high level analysis of what we did, what we
discovered, and what we recommend. The source study data can be found
here: <https://www.securityevaluators.com/hospitalhack/>

**---January 23-25, 2017 Annenberg Community Beach House, Santa Monica**

The Open Web Application Security Project (OWASP) Los Angeles Chapter is
teaming up with the Orange County and Santa Barbara chapters to bring
you the third annual AppSec California. The event is a one of a kind
experience for information security professionals, developers, and QA
and testing professionals, as they gather at the beach from around the
world to learn and share knowledge and experiences about secure systems
and secure development methodologies. A full day of training on various
subjects by expert trainers kicks off the conference on the 23rd. World
renown speakers follow on days two and three.
<https://2017.appseccalifornia.org/>