**---December 2018**

*Speaker*:

*Topic*:

**---November 2018**

*Speaker*:

*Topic*:

**---October 25, 2018 Verizon Digital Media Services**

*Speaker*:

*Topic*:

**---September 2018 Expert Dojo, Santa Monica**

Opening Talk: Rafal Los: The Meek \[Developers\] Have Inherited the
Earth

*Speaker*: Brian Knopf

Focusing on Application Security and IoT Security with a different
perspective. While compliance and risk are important to consider, proper
protection comes from Threat Modeling environments on a regular basis
and layering protection based on threats identified from the model.
Putting systems and tools in-place for security requires understanding
how an attacker would perform reconnaissance and exploit your
environment. This approach allows my teams to operate with smaller
budgets that deliver higher quality results while including source code
audits, penetration testing, proactive outreach with security
researchers, incident response, perimeter protection, and data
analytics. This ensures that security products are used together to
provide actionable data rather than just purchasing applications to
check a protection box. It also reduces the cost of vulnerabilities
since they are found earlier in the SDLC, enabling teams to focus more
time on features and not fixes.

*Topic*: **[Hunting for the next IoT - Your Vulns are not a Paradigm
Shift](https://www.owasp.org/index.php/Los_Angeles_Presentation_Archive#2018)**

We are often told in security that a product is groundbreaking, totally
different than previous products, and a complete paradigm shift. These
types of statements have been used to describe IoT devices, crypto
currencies, and other new technologies. While they are new, the threats
facing them are not. How do you move beyond the hype to identify real
threats facing your product or environment? How can you maximize the
limited resources your InfoSec or AppSec team has to make the best use
of time and resources available? Have you assessed your threat model?
Let me show you how to identify risk areas that everyone can agree on
when laid out.

**---August 2018 Tinder, West Hollywood**

*Speaker*: Jim Manico

Jim Manico is the founder of Manicode Security where he trains software
developers on secure coding and security engineering. He is also the
founder of Brakeman Security, Inc. and is a investor/ad visor for Signal
Sciences. Jim is a frequent speaker on secure software practices, is a
member of the JavaOne rock-star speaker and Java Champion community, and
is the author of "Iron-Clad Java: Building Secure Web Applications" from
McGraw-Hill and Oracle Press. Jim also volunteers for the OWASP
foundation where he helps build application security standards and other
documentation.

*Topic*: [**Why are we still talking about Cross Site Scripting
in 2018?**](https://www.owasp.org/images/c/ce/OWASP_LA_The_Last_XSS_Defense_Talk_Jim_Manico_2018_08.pdf)

Why are we still talking about Cross Site Scripting in 2018? Because
it's painfully difficult to defend against XSS even to this day. This
talk is a fundamental update to the 2011 AppSec USA talk "The Past
Present and Future of XSS Defense". We'll address new defensive
strategies such as modern JavaScript framework defense in Angular, React
and other frameworks. We'll also look at how CSP deployment has changed
in the past 7 years illustrating the progressive use of content security
which supports CSP v1, v2 and v3 concurrently. We will then look at
advances in HTML sanitization on both the client and server and focus on
sanitizers and defensive libraries that have stood the test of time in
terms of maintenance and security.

We'll also look at interesting design topics such as how HTML injection
is still critical even in the face of rigorous XSS defense and how
HTTPOnly cookies are largely ineffective. This talk should help
developers and security professionals alike build a focused and modern
strategy to defend against XSS in modern applications

**---July 2018**

*Speaker:* Kevin Gosschalk

*Topic:* How Bots Decide What You Can Buy and How Much You'll Pay

**---June 2018**

*Speaker***:** Anant Kadiyala

*Topic:* Blockchain as Security Mechanism for Real World IoT

**---May 2018**

*Speaker:* Pieter Danheiux

*Topic***:** Improving Software Security in an Agile Environment

**---April 2018**

*Speaker:* Jason Patterson

*Topic***:** Cloud Security/Containers

**---March 2018**

*Speaker*: Ira Winkler

*Topic*: Incorporating Security Practices into Business Processes

**---February 2018**

*Speaker*: Justin Regele

*Topic*: Better Git Hacking; Extracting “deleted” secrets from Git
databases with Grawler

**---January 28-31, 2018 Annenberg Community Beach House, Santa Monica**

The Open Web Application Security Project (OWASP) Los Angeles Chapter is
teaming up with the Orange County and Santa Barbara chapters to bring
you the third annual AppSec California. The event is a one of a kind
experience for information security professionals, developers, and QA
and testing professionals, as they gather at the beach from around the
world to learn and share knowledge and experiences about secure systems
and secure development methodologies. A full day of training on various
subjects by expert trainers kicks off the conference on the 23rd. World
renown speakers follow on days two and three.
[<https://2018.appseccalifornia.org>](https://2018.appseccalifornia.org/)