__NOTOC__

# WELCOME

### OWASP Marketing: Designs and Downloads

On this page, you will find the most current marketing materials and
brand guidelines used by the OWASP Foundation. We have everything from
logos and business cards to banner stand and brochure designs all for
your use. Most of the files found on this page are in a PDF, EPS, or
JPEG format; however, some pieces have the original Creative Suite files
zipped in a toolbox. We recommend using the PDF, EPS, and JPEG files
first as they are the easiest to use. If you need to edit a design
piece, then you are more than welcome to download the Creative Suite
files if you have access to Adobe In-Design, Photoshop, and Illustrator.
If you require an edit to a design, and you do not have access to Adobe
Creative Suite, then please let us know by using the [OWASP Contact Us
form](https://owasporg.atlassian.net/servicedesk/customer/portal/7/group/18/create/72).

Note: Before you download and use any of the marketing materials on this
page, please be sure to read the [Brand Usage Rules and
Guidelines](https://www.owasp.org/index.php/Marketing/Resources#tab=BRAND_GUIDELINES).
It is important to understand how we expect contributors to use these
materials as well as what is acceptable and what it not when it comes to
usage of our brand and visual Identity.

[2015 PPT Template
Toolbox](https://www.owasp.org/index.php/File:PPT_2015_Toolbox.zip) -
Contains PowerPoint templates optimized for 16:9 screen resolution
(HDTV, widescreen)
[2014 OWASP Office + Logo
Toolbox](https://www.owasp.org/index.php/File:OWASP_2014_Office_Toolbox.zip)
- Contains PNG logos, brand guidelines in PowerPoint format and
presentation backgrounds in PNG format optimized for 4:3 screen
resolution (standard TV)
[2013 PPT Template
Toolbox](https://www.owasp.org/index.php/File:PPT_2013_Toolbox.zip) -
Contains PowerPoint templates optimized for 4:3 screen resolution
(standard TV)

# BRAND GUIDELINES

### The Brand Usage Rules

OWASP's philosophy is that achieving security involves all parts of an
organization, including people, process, and technology. We support the
use of our brand consistent with this philosophy. However, we cannot
allow the use of our brand when it implies something inconsistent with
OWASP's comprehensive and balanced approach to application security.
Therefore, we have defined these brand usage rules to clarify
appropriate and inappropriate uses of the OWASP brand, including our
name, domain, logos, project names, and other trademarks.

The Brand Guideline documents and rules below provide details and
instruction on how to use the OWASP logo and brand. The quick reference
sheet goes over the basics of the OWASP brand logo and a brief overview
of customizable options. The Brand Guidelines document gives the entire
description of the OWASP brand, its public use, and the options to
customize the logo. The guidelines cover the OWASP signature, size and
spacing, colors, imagery, and typefaces.

#### Rules

The OWASP brand is the property of the OWASP Foundation. The right to
use the name or logo is granted as long as the following guidelines are
followed. The right to use the OWASP brand may be revoked at any time.
The following rules make reference to the OWASP Materials, meaning any
tools, documentation, or other content from OWASP.

1.  The OWASP Brand may be used to direct people to the OWASP website
    for information about application security.
2.  The OWASP Brand may be used in commentary about the materials found
    on the OWASP website.
3.  The OWASP Brand may be used by OWASP Members in good standing to
    acknowledge a person's involvement in or a company's support of
    OWASP.
4.  The OWASP Brand may be used to indicate that OWASP is a host or
    sponsor of an event.
5.  The OWASP Brand may be used in association with an application
    security assessment only if a complete and detailed methodology,
    sufficient to reproduce the results, is disclosed.
6.  The OWASP Brand must not be used in a manner that suggests that The
    OWASP Foundation supports, advocates, endorses, or recommends any
    particular product or technology.
7.  The OWASP Brand must not be used in a manner that suggests that a
    product or technology is compliant with any OWASP Materials.
8.  The OWASP Brand must not be used in a manner that suggests that a
    product or technology can enable compliance with any OWASP
    Materials.
9.  The OWASP Brand must not be used in any materials that could mislead
    readers by narrowly interpreting a broad application security
    category. For example, a vendor product that can find or protect
    against forced browsing must not claim that they address all of the
    access control category.
10. The OWASP Brand may be used by special arrangement with The OWASP
    Foundation.

#### Customization

Customization of OWASP identity graphics is a way to reflect individual
characteristics of conferences, events, chapters and projects. The
branding guidelines allow for minimal customization of identity
graphics. Please see the Identity section for details. A color palette
is provided in the Identity Standards Quick Reference Guide. Background
images, such as a country flag to identify a local chapter, may be
acceptable as long as it does not obscure the branded identity. All
customized identity graphics, including logos, banners, avatars, cover
photos, presentation templates, etc. must follow these guidelines.

Questionable practices include changing the circle to a square, altering
the angle of the wasp feature, using non-branded wasp images,
copyrighted images and any other treatment that alters or obscures the
OWASP brand. The OWASP Foundation reserves the right to request changes
to any graphic that does not comply with these rules.

#### Imagery

Be sure artwork is of a suitable quality for the medium in which it will
be presented. Do not warp images beyond their normal proportions. Always
use the best available version of an image. Make sure the resolution of
an image is acceptable. At the final size in a document, image
resolution should at a minimum be:

  - Websites/email: 72dpi
  - Powerpoint documents: 150dpi
  - Printer materials: 300dpi (or vector images)

#### Statement of Non-Endorsement

OWASP does not endorse any product, services or tools. The following
disclaimer/About OWASP text can be used in projects or press releases
that reference external products, services or tools. We ask that the
community look out for inappropriate uses of the OWASP brand including
use of our name, logos, project names and other trademark issues.

About the OWASP Foundation: The Open Web Application Security Project
(OWASP) is a 501(c)(3) worldwide not-for-profit charitable organization
focused on improving the security of software. Our mission is to make
software security visible, so that individuals and organizations
worldwide can make informed decisions about true software security
risks. Everyone is free to participate in OWASP and all of our materials
are available under a free and open software license. You'll find
everything about OWASP linked from our wiki and current information on
our OWASP Blog. OWASP does not endorse or recommend any product or
service This allows our community to remain vendor neutral with the
collective wisdom of the best minds in software security worldwide.

## Brand Guidelines document

### Identity Standards Manual

[Identity Standards
Manual](https://www.owasp.org/images/2/2b/Owasp_ISM8_FINAL.pdf) (file
size: 8.2 MB, MIME type: application/pdf)

![PrimarySig.png‎](PrimarySig.png‎ "PrimarySig.png‎")

## Brand Reference Sheet

[Brand Quick Reference
Sheet](https://www.owasp.org/images/b/b4/Owasp_ISM_quickref_FINAL.pdf)
(file size: 1.6 MB, MIME type: application/pdf)

![OWASP_Quick_Ref.jpg‎](OWASP_Quick_Ref.jpg‎ "OWASP_Quick_Ref.jpg‎")

## Open Source Typefaces

Below is a list of open source typefaces the community can use as an
alternative to the typefaces suggested in the brand guidelines document.

#### Similar to House Gothic:

  - [Titillium
    Typeface](http://www.fontsquirrel.com/fonts/Titillium?q%5Bterm%5D=Titillium&q%5Bsearch_check%5D=Y)
  - [Armata Typeface](http://www.fontsquirrel.com/fonts/armata)

#### Similar to Joanna:

  - [Enriqueta](http://www.fontsquirrel.com/fonts/enriqueta)
  - [Deja Vu](http://www.fontsquirrel.com/fonts/DejaVu-Serif)
  - [Brawler](http://www.fontsquirrel.com/fonts/brawler)

# IDENTITY

### The OWASP Brand

Circulation of the OWASP brand is a key part in the growth of OWASP. For
all OWASP related needs, the OWASP identity is available in the form of
logos, letterheads, business cards, envelopes and Power Point
presentation templates. These materials are useful when putting together
OWASP related documents, and when representing OWASP both within and
outside the community. Please refer to the brand guidelines document
concerning the usage of the OWASP brand.

## Logos

[OWASP Logo Toolbox 2013
EPS](https://www.owasp.org/index.php/File:OWASP_LOGOS_2013.zip) (file
size: 3.7 MB, MIME type: application/zip)

[OWASP Logo Toolbox 2013
PNG](https://www.owasp.org/index.php/File:OWASP_LOGO_PNGs.zip) (file
size: 1.4 MB, MIME type: application/zip)

Click on a logo below for detailed file information and to download
individual images.

![Owasp logo](Owasp_logo.jpg "Owasp logo") ![](Owasp_logo_1c.jpg)

![Owasp logo](Logo3.jpg "Owasp logo") ![](Logo4.jpg)

![Owasp logo rev icon](Owasp_logo_rev_icon.jpg "Owasp logo rev icon")
![Owasp logo flat](Owasp_logo_flat2_icon.jpg "Owasp logo flat") ![Owasp
logo icon](Owasp_logo_icon.jpg "Owasp logo icon") ![Owasp logo 1c
icon](Owasp_logo_1c_icon.jpg "Owasp logo 1c icon")

## OWASP Supporter Logos

Individual and Corporate members as well as OWASP sponsors are able to
display this logo on their profile or website.

The Foundation approved Supporter Logos are intended for use by our paid
or honorary members only. Non-members of OWASP are unauthorized to use
these logos in any form.

Use of OWASP supporter logos does not imply OWASP's endorsement of any
products, people, or services. Logos must not be placed in any manner
that would imply OWASP's endorsement of products, people, or services.

[OWASP Supporter Logo
Toolbox](https://www.owasp.org/index.php/File:Supporter_Logo_2017.zip)

![Image:Owasp_Supporter_2017_V03.jpg](Owasp_Supporter_2017_V03.jpg
"Image:Owasp_Supporter_2017_V03.jpg")
![Image:Owasp_Supporter_2017_V02.jpg](Owasp_Supporter_2017_V02.jpg
"Image:Owasp_Supporter_2017_V02.jpg")

## Identity Package

### Letterhead

[Letterhead](https://www.owasp.org/images/e/ea/Proof.pdf) (file size:
407 KB, MIME type: application/pdf)

![Proof.jpg](Proof.jpg "Proof.jpg")

### Business Cards

[Business
Cards](https://www.owasp.org/images/f/f7/Owasp_bc_nobleed_editable.pdf)
(file size: 1.6 MB, MIME type: application/pdf)

![BC_OWASP_2013.jpg](BC_OWASP_2013.jpg "BC_OWASP_2013.jpg")

### Envelope

[Envelope](https://www.owasp.org/images/2/29/Proof_1.pdf) (file size:
375 KB, MIME type: application/pdf)

![Envelope.jpg](Envelope.jpg "Envelope.jpg")

## PPT Templates

Download the entire set of Powerpoint slides in a single .ZIP file or
scroll down to download individual decks in PDF format. Note that the
ZIP file contains full set of master slides, while the PDF versions are
single background slides. The 2015 Template Toolbox is optimized for
16:9 screen resolution.

[2015 PPT Template
Toolbox](https://www.owasp.org/images/3/3f/PPT_2015_Toolbox.zip) (file
size: 4.09 MB, MIME type: application/zip) - optimized for 16:9 screen
resolution (HDTV, widescreen)
[2013 PPT Template
Toolbox](https://www.owasp.org/images/5/5d/PPT_2013_Toolbox.zip) (file
size: 1.38 MB, MIME type: application/zip) - optimized for 4:3 screen
resolution (standard TV)

### PowerPoint 1

[OWASP PPT 1](https://www.owasp.org/images/0/06/Owasp_ppt_1.pdf) (file
size: 64 KB, MIME type: application/pdf)

![Owasp_ppt_1.jpg](Owasp_ppt_1.jpg "Owasp_ppt_1.jpg")

### PowerPoint 2

[Download PPT 2](https://www.owasp.org/images/0/02/Owasp_ppt_2.pdf)
(file size: 125 KB, MIME type: application/pdf)

![Owasp_ppt_2.jpg](Owasp_ppt_2.jpg "Owasp_ppt_2.jpg")

### PowerPoint 3

[Download PPT 3](https://www.owasp.org/images/e/e2/Owasp_ppt_3.pdf)
(file size 122 KB , MIME type: application/pdf)

![Owasp_ppt_3.jpg](Owasp_ppt_3.jpg "Owasp_ppt_3.jpg")

# AVATARS

### Social Media

Connect others to OWASP with the social media avatars. The avatars below
can be used for Twitter, Facebook, LinkedIn and YouTube. Social media is
the easiest way to keep up to date on the happenings within OWASP. You
can either download the icons individually, or you can download them all
via the Toolbox link below. Branding rules relating to customization of
icons, cover photos, banners and other social media graphics are covered
in the Brand Guidelines section of the Marketing/Resources site.
Customization may not obscure the OWASP brand.

[OWASP Social Media
Toolbox](https://www.owasp.org/images/1/12/Owasp_social_media.zip) (file
size: 478 KB, MIME type: application/zip)

## Facebook

**Icon**

![Facebook_icon.png](Facebook_icon.png "Facebook_icon.png")

**Coverphoto**

![Coverphoto_fb.png](Coverphoto_fb.png "Coverphoto_fb.png")

## Google+

**Icon**

![Googleplus_icon.png](Googleplus_icon.png "Googleplus_icon.png")

**Coverphoto**

![Coverphoto(1)googleplus.png](Coverphoto\(1\)googleplus.png
"Coverphoto(1)googleplus.png")

## LinkedIn

**Icon**

![Image:Linkedin icon.png](Linkedin_icon.png "Image:Linkedin icon.png")

**Large Icon**

![Image:Linkedin icon large.png](Linkedin_icon_large.png
"Image:Linkedin icon large.png")

**Coverphoto**

![Image:Coverphoto(2).png](Coverphoto\(2\).png
"Image:Coverphoto(2).png")

## Pinterest

**Icon**

![Pinterest_icon.png](Pinterest_icon.png "Pinterest_icon.png")

## Twitter

**Icon**

![Image:Twitter icon.png](Twitter_icon.png "Image:Twitter icon.png")

**Background**

![Tiled_background.png](Tiled_background.png "Tiled_background.png")

## YouTube

**Icon**

![Image:Youtube icon.png](Youtube_icon.png "Image:Youtube icon.png")

**Background**

![Tiled_background.png](Tiled_background.png "Tiled_background.png")

# BANNERS

### OWASP Print and Web Banners

Below you will find a print banner that you can use for events and
conferences, and several web banners that are used for different
operational areas within OWASP. The print banner download comes in a
print ready PDF. It is ready to send to the printers.

## Conference Banner

[Conference
Banner](https://www.owasp.org/images/2/21/Owasp_bannerstand_final.pdf)
(file size: 624 KB , MIME type: application/pdf)

![Banner_stand.png](Banner_stand.png "Banner_stand.png")

## Web Banners

### Web Banner Collections

  - [OWASP Banner Toolbox
    Small](https://www.owasp.org/images/e/e0/Owasp_web_banners_small.zip)
    (file size: 247 KB, MIME type: application/zip)
  - [OWASP Banner Toolbox
    Large](https://www.owasp.org/images/a/a7/Owasp_banners_Large.zip)
    (file size: 754 KB, MIME type: application/zip)

### Web Banner Files

Click a banner to view file information or to download the file.

![Owasp_banner_web_edu.jpg](Owasp_banner_web_edu.jpg
"Owasp_banner_web_edu.jpg")

![Owasp_banner_web_com.jpg](Owasp_banner_web_com.jpg
"Owasp_banner_web_com.jpg")

![Owasp_banner_web_soc.jpg](Owasp_banner_web_soc.jpg
"Owasp_banner_web_soc.jpg")

![Owasp_banner_web_ini.jpg](Owasp_banner_web_ini.jpg
"Owasp_banner_web_ini.jpg")

![Owasp_banner_web_mem.jpg](Owasp_banner_web_mem.jpg
"Owasp_banner_web_mem.jpg")

![Owasp_banner_web_pro.jpg](Owasp_banner_web_pro.jpg
"Owasp_banner_web_pro.jpg")

![Owasp_banner_web_cha.jpg](Owasp_banner_web_cha.jpg
"Owasp_banner_web_cha.jpg")

![Owasp_banner_web_ind.jpg](Owasp_banner_web_ind.jpg
"Owasp_banner_web_ind.jpg")

![Owasp_banner_web_con.jpg](Owasp_banner_web_con.jpg
"Owasp_banner_web_con.jpg")

## Previous Web Banners

The following banners are no longer in use. If you are using any of
these banners, please replace with the corresponding banner above.

![MEMBERSHIP_BANNER.jpg](MEMBERSHIP_BANNER.jpg "MEMBERSHIP_BANNER.jpg")

![EDUCATION_BANNER.jpg](EDUCATION_BANNER.jpg "EDUCATION_BANNER.jpg")

![CHAPTERS_BANNER.jpg](CHAPTERS_BANNER.jpg "CHAPTERS_BANNER.jpg")

![CONFERENCES_BANNER.jpg](CONFERENCES_BANNER.jpg
"CONFERENCES_BANNER.jpg")

![PROJECTS_BANNER.jpg](PROJECTS_BANNER.jpg "PROJECTS_BANNER.jpg")

![MARKETING_BANNER.jpg](MARKETING_BANNER.jpg "MARKETING_BANNER.jpg")

![INDUSTRY_BANNER.jpg](INDUSTRY_BANNER.jpg "INDUSTRY_BANNER.jpg")

# STICKERS

Below you will find stickers that you can use for events, conferences,
and chapter meetings. The sticker download comes in a print-ready PDF.

[Awareness is
Key](https://www.owasp.org/images/2/29/Awareness_key_sticker.pdf) ‎(file
size: 753 KB, MIME type: application/pdf)

![Awareness_key_sticker.png](Awareness_key_sticker.png
"Awareness_key_sticker.png")

[Got
OWASP?](https://www.owasp.org/images/d/d3/Got_OWASP_Sticker_V01.pdf)
‎(file size: 34 KB, MIME type: application/pdf)

![Got_OWASP_Sticker_V01.png](Got_OWASP_Sticker_V01.png
"Got_OWASP_Sticker_V01.png")

[Don't Get
Hooked](https://www.owasp.org/images/5/5d/Hooked_sticker.pdf)‎ (file
size: 736 KB, MIME type: application/pdf)

![Hooked_sticker.png](Hooked_sticker.png "Hooked_sticker.png")

[Security Allows No
Gaps](https://www.owasp.org/images/6/63/Scrabble_sticker.pdf) (file
size: 771 KB, MIME type: application/pdf)

![Scrabble_sticker.png](Scrabble_sticker.png "Scrabble_sticker.png")

[Be Security
Smart](https://www.owasp.org/images/1/16/Security_smart_blue_sticker.pdf)
(file size: 739 KB, MIME type: application/pdf)

![Security_smart_blue_sticker.png](Security_smart_blue_sticker.png
"Security_smart_blue_sticker.png")

# FLYERS AND BROCHURES

## OWASP Information

The purpose of the informative materials is to give an overview of OWASP
and the benefits of membership. Provided below is the brief About Us
flyer, as well as information about corporate and individual membership.
Three form letters are provided in the New Member Welcome flyer and the
e-brochure provides additional information. The final flyer provides
information about OWASP project Zed Attack Proxy(ZAP), a
penetration-testing tool. The features and functionality of ZAP are also
outlined in the flyer.

### About Us Flyer

[About Us Flyer - Front
Page](https://www.owasp.org/index.php/File:Owasp_aboutus_flyer_High_Resolution_front_page.pdf)
(file size: 706 KB, MIME type: application/pdf)

[About Us Flyer - Back
Page](https://www.owasp.org/index.php/File:Owasp_aboutus_flyer_HighResolution_Back_page.pdf)
(file size: 320 KB, MIME type: application/pdf)
Note: The back page is blank and is customizable in Adobe Acrobat Pro or
other PDF editor; however you may need to have a copy of the Joanna MT
font set to edit the text.

![Owasp_aboutus_flyer.jpg](Owasp_aboutus_flyer.jpg
"Owasp_aboutus_flyer.jpg")

### Corporate and Individual Membership Flyer

[Corporate and Individual Membership
Flyer](https://www.owasp.org/images/2/21/OWASP_Membership_Flyer_FINAL_WEB.pdf)
(file size: 217 KB, MIME type: application/pdf)

![OWASP_Membership_Flyer_FINAL_WEB.png](OWASP_Membership_Flyer_FINAL_WEB.png
"OWASP_Membership_Flyer_FINAL_WEB.png")

### New Member Welcome Flyer

[New Member Welcome
Letter](https://www.owasp.org/images/thumb/9/90/Owasp_welcome_letter%281%29.jpg/500px-Owasp_welcome_letter%281%29.jpg)
(file size: 53 KB, MIME type: application/pdf)

![Owasp_welcome_letter(1).jpg](Owasp_welcome_letter\(1\).jpg
"Owasp_welcome_letter(1).jpg")

### ZAP Flyer

[ZAP flyer](https://www.owasp.org/images/2/23/Owasp_ZAP_Final.pdf) (file
size122 KB, MIME type: application/pdf)

![ZAP.png](ZAP.png "ZAP.png")

### E-Brochure

[OWASP
E-Brochure](https://www.owasp.org/index.php/File:Owasp_brochure_final.pdf)
(file size122 KB, MIME type: application/pdf)

![Owasp_brochure_final.jpg](Owasp_brochure_final.jpg
"Owasp_brochure_final.jpg")

# PROJECT RESOURCES

## Project Icons & Templates

The templates and icons below are the files used for our OWASP Projects.
Here you will find icons that you can place on your wiki project page to
let viewers know what type of project they are looking at, and what
stage the project is in. Click on an image to view information and
download the file.

The operational OWASP Project wiki template can be copied onto a new
project page. If you require more assistance with these files and/or
templates, please contact the OWASP staff for assistance.

**[OWASP Operational Wiki
Template](https://www.owasp.org/index.php/OWASP_Operations_Project_Template)**

**[OWASP Example Template: DO NOT
EDIT](https://www.owasp.org/index.php/OWASP_Documentation_Project_Template)**

![Owasp logo](OWASP_Project_Header.jpg "Owasp logo")

![Owasp logo](Project_Type_Files_TOOL.jpg "Owasp logo")
![](Project_Type_Files_DOC.jpg)

![Owasp logo](Project_Type_Files_CODE.jpg "Owasp logo") ![Owasp
logo](Owasp-defenders-small.png "Owasp logo") ![Owasp
logo](Owasp-builders-small.png "Owasp logo") ![Owasp
logo](Owasp-breakers-small.png "Owasp logo")

![Owasp logo rev icon](New_projects.png "Owasp logo rev icon") ![Owasp
logo flat](Midlevel_projects.png "Owasp logo flat") [Owasp logo
icon](image:Mature_projects.png "wikilink")

### OpenSAMM

Download all OpenSAMM graphics via the ZIP file below or click on an
image to view information and download individual files.

**[OpenSAMM Icons](https://owasp.org/images/5/53/OpenSAMM_icons.zip)**
(file size: 223 KB, MIME type: application/zip)

**Construction:**

![Construction black](Construction_black.png "Construction black")
![Construction blue](Construction_blue.png "Construction blue")
[construction olive](image:Construction_olive.png "wikilink")

**Deployment:**

[Deployment black](image:Deployment_black.png "wikilink") [Deployment
blue](image:Deployment_blue.png "wikilink") [Deployment
olive](image:Deployment_olive.png "wikilink")

**Governance:**

[governance black](image:Governance_black.png "wikilink") [governance
blue](image:Governance_blue.png "wikilink") [governance
olive](image:Governance_olive.png "wikilink")

**Verification:**

[Verification black](image:Verification_black.png "wikilink")
[verification blue](image:Verification_blue.png "wikilink")
[Verification olive](image:_Verification_olive.png "wikilink")

## Book Cover Files

[Lulu Guide](https://www.owasp.org/images/d/d3/Lulu-guide.pdf) (file
size: 2.6 MB, MIME type: application/pdf)

Below you will find the Adobe Illustrator, Photoshop, and In-Design
files for past OWASP Documentation books. You will need a copy of Adobe
Creative Suite to edit these files. If you want to use these templates,
but do not have Adobe Creative Suite, please contact the OWASP staff for
assistance.

**[Download the Book Cover Zip
File](https://www.dropbox.com/s/qgotw95mx1bcbat/Finished%20Covers.zip?dl=0)**

![BookImage_01.jpg‎](BookImage_01.jpg‎ "BookImage_01.jpg‎")

# MARKETING RESEARCH

## Marketing Research

Sisterworks Publishing and Design Foundry were contracted to help OWASP
develop a consistent brand message and style. Both companies, along with
the OWASP staff, worked together on this marketing project with the aim
of developing consistent brand visual identity and messaging. The
marketing project was separated into three phases. The first phase was
the market research phase during which Sisterworks and Design Foundry
undertook market research initiatives of the overall competitive
landscape OWASP exists within. The second phase involved the development
of a proposed marketing plan, and included marketing recommendations for
OWASP to consider in the future.

[Marketing
Research](https://www.owasp.org/images/9/9d/Marketing_Reserach.zip)
(file size: 5.4 MB, MIME type: application/zip)

### Marketing Research Explained

[Marketing Research
Explained](https://www.owasp.org/images/7/7c/OWASP_Background-Research_Phase1_Final_%281%29.pdf)
(file size: 3.0 MB, MIME type: application/pdf)

![Page-0.jpg](Page-0.jpg "Page-0.jpg")

### Marketing Strategy Recommendations

[Marketing Strategy
Recommendations](https://www.owasp.org/images/c/c5/OWASP_Recommendations-Presentation2-April24.pdf)
(file size: 967 KB, MIME type: application/pdf)

![Marketing_Strategy.jpg](Marketing_Strategy.jpg
"Marketing_Strategy.jpg")

### SEO Audit and Recommendations

[SEO Audit and
Recommendations](https://www.owasp.org/images/4/48/OWASP-SEO-Content-Audit-Final-6-7-2013.pdf)
(file size: 2/1 MB, MIME type: application/pdf)

![SEO_Audits.jpg](SEO_Audits.jpg "SEO_Audits.jpg")

# CONTACT

## Contact Us

If you are interested in another piece of OWASP design for your event or
project, please let us know by using the [Contact Us
form](https://owasporg.atlassian.net/servicedesk/customer/portal/7/group/18/create/72).

<headertabs></headertabs>