|             |
| ----------- |
| __TOC__ |

<big>CHAPTER THREE</big>

<big>**THE PROCESS**</big>

EXECUTING THE [RISK
MANAGEMENT](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Risk_Management)
FRAMEWORK TASKS

This chapter describes the process of applying the [Risk
Management](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Risk_Management)
Framework ([RMF](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=AnA:RMF)) to
federal information systems.\[1\] The process includes a set of
well-defined risk-related tasks that are to be carried out by selected
individuals or groups within the organization (e.g., [risk executive
(function)](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Risk_Executive_\(Function\)),
[authorizing
official](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Authorizing_Official),
[authorizing official designated
representative](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Authorizing_Official_Designated_Representative),
[chief information
officer](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Chief_Information_Officer),
[senior information security
officer](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Senior_Information_Security_Officer),
enterprise architect, information security architect, information
owner/steward, [information system
owner](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Information_System_Owner),
[common control
provider](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Common_Control_Provider),
[information system security
officer](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Information_System_Security_Officer),
and [security control
assessor](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Security_Control_Assessor)).
The [RMF](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=AnA:RMF) extends beyond
the organization to external providers (e.g., providers of [security
controls](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Security_Controls)
in external environments). Each
[RMF](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=AnA:RMF) task description
includes the individual or group with the primary responsibility for
carrying out the task, the supporting roles that may be called upon to
assist in completing the task, the [system development life
cycle](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:System_Development_Life_Cycle)
phase most closely associated with the task, supplemental guidance to
help explain how the task is executed, and appropriate
[references](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:References) for
publications or Web sites with information related to the task.

The [RMF](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=AnA:RMF) tasks can be
applied at appropriate phases in the [system development life
cycle](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:System_Development_Life_Cycle).
While the tasks appear in sequential order, there can be many points in
the [risk
management](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Risk_Management)
process that require divergence from the sequential order. For example,
the results from security control assessments can trigger
[remediation](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Remediation)
actions on the part of an [information system
owner](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Information_System_Owner),
which can in turn require the reassessment of selected controls.
Monitoring the [security
controls](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Security_Controls)
in an information system can also generate a potential cycle of tracking
changes to the system and its environment of operation, conducting
security impact analyses, taking
[remediation](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Remediation)
actions, reassessing [security
controls](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Security_Controls),
and [reporting](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Reporting)
the security status of the system. There may also be other opportunities
to diverge from the sequential nature of the tasks when it is more
efficient or cost-effective to do so. For example, while the [security
control
assessment](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Security_Control_Assessment)
tasks are listed after the security control implementation tasks, some
organizations may choose to begin the
[assessment](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Assessment) of
certain controls as soon as they are implemented but prior to the
complete implementation of all controls described in the [security
plan](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Security_Plan). This
may result in the organization assessing the physical and environmental
protection controls within a
[facility](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Facility) prior to
assessing the [security
controls](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Security_Controls)
employed in the hardware and software components of the information
system (which may be implemented at a later time).

The process of implementing the
[RMF](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=AnA:RMF) tasks (i.e., the
order and manner in which the tasks occur and are executed, the names of
primary/supporting roles, the names and format of
[artifacts](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Artifacts)) may
vary from organization to organization. The [security
categorization](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Security_Categorization)
process influences the level of effort expended when implementing the
[RMF](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=AnA:RMF). Information
systems supporting the most critical and/or sensitive operations and
assets within the organization as indicated by the [security
categorization](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Security_Categorization)
process, demand the greatest level of attention and effort to ensure
that appropriate information security and [risk
mitigation](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Risk_Mitigation)
are achieved. A summary table of the
[RMF](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=AnA:RMF) tasks is provided
in Appendix E.

## 3.1 RMF STEP 1 - CATEGORIZE INFORMATION SYSTEM

## 3.2 RMF STEP 2 - SELECT SECURITY CONTROLS

## 3.3 RMF STEP 3 - IMPLEMENT SECURITY CONTROLS

## 3.4 RMF STEP 4 - ASSESS SECURITY CONTROLS

## 3.5 RMF STEP 5 - AUTHORIZE INFORMATION SYSTEM

## 3.6 RMF STEP 6 - MONITOR SECURITY CONTROLS

## Footnotes

<references />

## Sources

  - [NIST SP 800-37 Rev. 1 DRAFT Guide for Applying the Risk Management
    Framework to Federal Information Systems: A Security Life Cycle
    Approach](http://csrc.nist.gov/publications/drafts/800-37-Rev1/SP800-37-rev1-FPD.pdf)

[Category:GIC-NISTSP80037r1FPD](Category:GIC-NISTSP80037r1FPD "wikilink")

1.  The process for managing risk from information systems described in
    this publication can be tailored to meet the needs of many
    [communities of
    interest](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Communities_of_Interest)
    within the federal government including, for example, the Civil,
    Defense, and
    [Intelligence](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Intelligence)
    Communities.
    [Tailoring](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Tailoring)
    provides flexibility in applying the concepts of the
    [RMF](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=AnA:RMF) in a manner
    that is most suitable for the organizations and the information
    systems involved.