|             |
| ----------- |
| __TOC__ |

<big>APPENDIX F</big>

<big>**SECURITY AUTHORIZATION**</big>

AUTHORIZATION DECISIONS AND SUPPORTING EVIDENCE

This appendix provides information on the [security
authorization](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Security_Authorization)
process to include: (i) the content of the authorization package; (ii)
types of authorization decisions; (iii) the content of the authorization
decision document; and
([iv](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=AnA:IV))
[maintenance](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Maintenance) of
authorizations through continuous monitoring processes and conditions
for reauthorization.

## F.1 AUTHORIZATION PACKAGE

The [security
authorization](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Security_Authorization)
package documents the results of the [security control
assessment](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Security_Control_Assessment)
and provides the [authorizing
official](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Authorizing_Official)
with essential information needed to make a credible, risk-based
decision on whether to authorize operation of an information system or a
designated set of common controls. Unless specifically designated
otherwise by the [chief information
officer](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Chief_Information_Officer)
or [authorizing
official](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Authorizing_Official),
the [information system
owner](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Information_System_Owner)
or [common control
provider](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Common_Control_Provider)
is responsible for the assembly, compilation, and submission of the
authorization package. The [information system
owner](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Information_System_Owner)
or [common control
provider](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Common_Control_Provider)
receives inputs from the [information system security
officer](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Information_System_Security_Officer),
[security control
assessor](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Security_Control_Assessor),
[senior information security
officer](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Senior_Information_Security_Officer),
and [risk executive
(function)](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Risk_Executive_\(Function\))
during the preparation of the authorization package. The authorization
package\[1\] contains the following documents:

  - [Security
    plan](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Security_Plan);
  - [Security assessment
    report](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Security_assessment_report);
    and
  - [Plan of action and
    milestones](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Plan_of_Action_and_Milestones).

The [security
plan](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Security_Plan),
prepared by the [information system
owner](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Information_System_Owner)
or [common control
provider](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Common_Control_Provider),
provides an overview of the [security
requirements](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Security_Requirements)
and describes the [security
controls](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Security_Controls)
in place or planned for meeting those requirements. The plan provides
sufficient information to understand the intended implementation of each
security control employed within or inherited by the information
system.\[2\] The [security
plan](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Security_Plan) also
contains as supporting appendices or as
[references](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:References) to
appropriate sources, other risk and security-related documents such as a
[risk
assessment](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Risk_Assessment),
[privacy impact
assessment](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Privacy_Impact_Assessment),
[system
interconnection](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:System_Interconnection)
agreements, [contingency
plan](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Contingency_Plan),
security configurations, [configuration
management](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Configuration_Management)
plan, [incident response
plan](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Incident_Response_Plan),
and continuous monitoring strategy. In accordance with the near
[real-time](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Real-Time) [risk
management](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Risk_Management)
objectives of the [security
authorization](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Security_Authorization)
process, the [security
plan](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Security_Plan) is
updated whenever events dictate changes to the agreed-upon [security
controls](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Security_Controls)
employed within or inherited by the information system. Updates to the
[security
plan](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Security_Plan) may be
triggered by a variety of events, for example: (i) a vulnerability scan
of the information system or [vulnerability
assessment](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Vulnerability_Assessment)
of the environment of operation; (ii) new threat information; (iii)
weaknesses or deficiencies discovered in currently deployed [security
controls](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Security_Controls)
after an information system breach;
([iv](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=AnA:IV)) a redefinition of
mission priorities or business objectives invalidating the results of
the previous [security
categorization](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Security_Categorization)
process; and (v) a change in the information system (e.g., adding new
hardware, software, or
[firmware](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Firmware);
establishing new connections) or its environment of operation (e.g.,
moving to a new
[facility](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Facility)).

The [security assessment
report](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:security_assessment_report),
prepared by the [security control
assessor](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Security_Control_Assessor),
provides the results of assessing the implementation of the [security
controls](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Security_Controls)
identified in the [security
plan](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Security_Plan) to
determine the extent to which the controls are implemented correctly,
operating as intended, and producing the desired outcome with respect to
meeting the specified [security
requirements](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Security_Requirements).
The [security assessment
report](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:security_assessment_report)
also contains a list of recommended corrective actions for any
weaknesses or deficiencies identified in the [security
controls](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Security_Controls).\[3\]
Supporting the near
[real-time](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Real-Time) [risk
management](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Risk_Management)
objectives of the [security
authorization](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Security_Authorization)
process, the [security assessment
report](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:security_assessment_report)
is updated on an ongoing basis whenever changes are made to the
[security
controls](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Security_Controls)
employed within or inherited by the information system. Updates to the
[security assessment
report](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:security_assessment_report)
help to ensure that the [information system
owner](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Information_System_Owner),
[common control
provider](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Common_Control_Provider),
and authorizing officials maintain the appropriate awareness with regard
to security control effectiveness. The overall effectiveness of the
[security
controls](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Security_Controls)
directly affects the ultimate security state of the information system
and decisions regarding explicit
[acceptance](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Acceptance) of
risk.

The [plan of action and
milestones](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Plan_of_Action_and_Milestones),
prepared by the [information system
owner](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Information_System_Owner)
or [common control
provider](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Common_Control_Provider),
describes the specific
[measures](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Measures) planned:
(i) to correct weaknesses or deficiencies noted in the [security
controls](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Security_Controls)
during the
[assessment](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Assessment); and
(ii) to address known vulnerabilities in the information system.\[4\]
The content and structure of [plans of action and
milestones](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Plans_of_Action_and_Milestones)
are informed by the organizational [risk
management](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Risk_Management)
strategy developed as part of the [risk executive
(function)](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Risk_Executive_\(Function\))
and is consistent with the [plans of action and
milestones](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Plans_of_Action_and_Milestones)
process established by the organization and any specific requirements
defined in federal policies, directives, memoranda, or regulations. The
most effective [plans of action and
milestones](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Plans_of_Action_and_Milestones)
contain a robust set of actual weaknesses or deficiencies identified in
the [security
controls](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Security_Controls)
employed within or inherited by the information system. Assuming that
most information systems and the environments in which those systems are
deployed, have more vulnerabilities than available resources can
realistically address, organizations define a strategy for developing
and implementing [plans of action and
milestones](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Plans_of_Action_and_Milestones)
that facilitates a prioritized approach to [risk
mitigation](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Risk_Mitigation)
and that is consistent across the organization. This strategy helps to
ensure that [plans of action and
milestones](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Plans_of_Action_and_Milestones)
are based on:

  - The [security
    categorization](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Security_Categorization)
    of the information system;
  - The specific weaknesses or deficiencies in the [security
    controls](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Security_Controls);
  - The importance of the identified security control weaknesses or
    deficiencies (i.e., the direct or indirect effect the weaknesses or
    deficiencies may have on the overall security state of the
    information system and hence on the risk exposure\[5\] of the
    organization);
  - The organization's proposed [risk
    mitigation](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Risk_Mitigation)
    approach to address the identified weaknesses or deficiencies in the
    [security
    controls](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Security_Controls)
    (e.g., prioritization of [risk
    mitigation](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Risk_Mitigation)
    actions, allocation of [risk
    mitigation](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Risk_Mitigation)
    resources); and
  - The organization's rationale for accepting certain weaknesses or
    deficiencies in the [security
    controls](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Security_Controls).\[6\]

Organizational strategies for [plans of action and
milestones](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Plans_of_Action_and_Milestones)
are guided by the security categories of the respective information
systems affected by the [risk
mitigation](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Risk_Mitigation)
activities. Organizations may decide, for example, to allocate the vast
majority of [risk
mitigation](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Risk_Mitigation)
resources initially to the highest-impact information systems because a
failure to correct the weaknesses or deficiencies in those systems could
potentially have the most significant adverse effects on the
organization's missions or business operations. Organizations also
prioritize weaknesses or deficiencies using information from
organizational assessments of risk and the [risk
management](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Risk_Management)
strategy developed as part of the [risk executive
(function)](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Risk_Executive_\(Function\)).
Therefore, a [high-impact
system](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:High-Impact_System)
would have a prioritized list of weaknesses or deficiencies for that
system, as would moderate-impact and low-impact systems. In general, the
[plan of action and
milestones](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Plan_of_Action_and_Milestones)
strategy always addresses the highest-priority weaknesses or
deficiencies within those prioritized systems.

After completion of the [security
plan](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Security_Plan),
[security assessment
report](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:security_assessment_report),
and [plan of action and
milestones](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Plan_of_Action_and_Milestones),
the [information system
owner](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Information_System_Owner)
or [common control
provider](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Common_Control_Provider)
submits the final [security
authorization](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Security_Authorization)
package to the [authorizing
official](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Authorizing_Official)
or designated representative. Figure F-1 illustrates the key sections of
the authorization package.

![80037r1FPD_FigureF-1.png‎](80037r1FPD_FigureF-1.png‎
"80037r1FPD_FigureF-1.png‎")

## F.2 AUTHORIZATION DECISIONS

Authorization decisions are based on the content of the authorization
package including inputs from the organization's [risk executive
(function)](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Risk_Executive_\(Function\))
and any additional supporting documentation required by the [authorizing
official](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Authorizing_Official).
The [security
authorization](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Security_Authorization)
package provides comprehensive information on the security state of the
information system. [Risk executive
(function)](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Risk_Executive_\(Function\))
inputs, including the previously established overarching risk guidance
derived from the [risk
management](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Risk_Management)
strategy, provide additional information to the [authorizing
official](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Authorizing_Official)
that may be relevant and affect the final authorization decision (e.g.,
organizational [risk
tolerance](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Risk_Tolerance),
organization's overall [risk
mitigation](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Risk_Mitigation)
strategy, core mission and business requirements, dependencies among
information systems, ongoing risk monitoring requirements, and other
types of risks not directly associated with the information system or
its environment of operation). [Risk executive
(function)](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Risk_Executive_\(Function\))
inputs are documented and become part of the authorization decision.
Organizations determine how the [risk
management](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Risk_Management)
strategy and risk-related guidance from the [risk executive
(function)](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Risk_Executive_\(Function\))
influences/impacts the authorization decisions of authorizing officials.
[Security
authorization](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Security_Authorization)
decisions are conveyed to information system owners and [common
control](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Common_Control)
providers and are made available to selected officials within the
organization (e.g., information system owners inheriting common
controls, authorizing officials for interconnected systems, chief
information officers, senior information security officers, information
owners/stewards). There are two types of authorization decisions that
can be rendered by authorizing officials:

  - [Authorization to
    operate](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Authorization_to_Operate);\[7\]
    and
  - [Denial of authorization to
    operate](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Denial_of_Authorization_to_Operate).

### [Authorization to Operate](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Authorization_to_Operate)

If the [authorizing
official](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Authorizing_Official),
after reviewing the authorization package and any additional inputs
provided by the [risk executive
(function)](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Risk_Executive_\(Function\)),
deems that the risk to organizational operations and assets,
individuals, other organizations, and the Nation is acceptable, an
[authorization to
operate](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Authorization_to_Operate)
is issued for the information system or for the common controls
inherited by organizational information systems. The information system
is authorized to operate for a specified time period in accordance with
the terms and conditions established by the [authorizing
official](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Authorizing_Official).\[8\]
For [common
control](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Common_Control)
providers external to an information system, the authorization decision
means that the common controls under their control are approved for
[inheritance](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Inheritance) by
organizational information systems. An [authorization termination
date](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:authorization_termination_date)
is also established by the [authorizing
official](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Authorizing_Official)
as a [condition](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Condition)
of authorization. The [authorization termination
date](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:authorization_termination_date)
can be adjusted by the [authorizing
official](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Authorizing_Official)
to reflect an increased [level of
concern](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Level_of_Concern)
regarding the security state of the information system including the
security control employed within or inherited by the system.
Authorization
[termination](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Termination)
dates do not exceed the maximum allowable time periods for authorization
established by federal or organizational policy.

The [authorizing
official](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Authorizing_Official)
takes specific actions to reduce or eliminate vulnerabilities identified
during the execution of the [Risk
Management](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Risk_Management)
Framework unless the vulnerabilities have been explicitly accepted as
part of the authorization decision. In addition, the [information system
owner](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Information_System_Owner)
or [common control
provider](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Common_Control_Provider)
establishes a disciplined, structured, and repeatable process to monitor
the ongoing effectiveness of the deployed [security
controls](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Security_Controls)
and the progress of any actions taken to correct or eliminate weaknesses
or deficiencies. The [plan of action and
milestones](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Plan_of_Action_and_Milestones)
submitted by the [information system
owner](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Information_System_Owner)
is used by the [authorizing
official](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Authorizing_Official)
to monitor the progress in correcting deficiencies and weaknesses noted
during the [security control
assessment](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Security_Control_Assessment).

### [Denial of Authorization to Operate](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Denial_of_Authorization_to_Operate)

If the [authorizing
official](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Authorizing_Official),
after reviewing the authorization package and any additional inputs
provided by the [risk executive
(function)](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Risk_Executive_\(Function\)),
deems that the risk to organizational operations and assets,
individuals, other organizations, and the Nation is unacceptable and
[immediate](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Immediate) steps
cannot be taken to reduce the risk to an acceptable level, a [denial of
authorization to
operate](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Denial_of_Authorization_to_Operate)
is issued for the information system or for the common controls
inherited by organizational information systems. The information system
is not authorized to operate and is not placed into operation. If the
system is currently in operation, all
[activity](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Activity) is
halted. For [common
control](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Common_Control)
providers external to an information system, the authorization decision
means that the common controls under their control are not approved for
[inheritance](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Inheritance) by
organizational information systems. Failure to receive an [authorization
to
operate](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Authorization_to_Operate)
indicates that there are major weaknesses or deficiencies in the
[security
controls](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Security_Controls)
employed within or inherited by the information system. The [authorizing
official](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Authorizing_Official)
or designated representative works with the [information system
owner](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Information_System_Owner)
or [common control
provider](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Common_Control_Provider)
to revise the [plan of action and
milestones](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Plan_of_Action_and_Milestones)
to ensure that appropriate
[measures](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Measures) are
taken to correct the identified weaknesses or deficiencies.

A special case of a [denial of authorization to
operate](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Denial_of_Authorization_to_Operate)
is an authorization rescission. Authorizing officials can rescind a
previous authorization decision at any time in situations where there is
a specific
[violation](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Violation) of:
(i) federal/organizational security policies, directives, regulations,
standards, guidance, or practices; or (ii) the terms and conditions of
the original authorization. For example, failure to maintain an
effective continuous monitoring program may be grounds for rescinding an
authorization decision. Authorizing officials consult with the [risk
executive
(function)](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Risk_Executive_\(Function\))
and the [senior information security
officer](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Senior_Information_Security_Officer)
before rescinding security authorizations.

## F.3 AUTHORIZATION DECISION DOCUMENT

The authorization decision document transmits the final [security
authorization](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Security_Authorization)
decision from the [authorizing
official](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Authorizing_Official)
to the [information system
owner](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Information_System_Owner)
or [common control
provider](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Common_Control_Provider)
and other key organizational officials, as appropriate. The
authorization decision document contains the following information:

  - Authorization decision;
  - Terms and conditions for the authorization;
  - [Authorization termination
    date](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Authorization_termination_date)
    (if applicable); and
  - [Risk executive
    (function)](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Risk_Executive_\(Function\))
    input (if provided).

The [security
authorization](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Security_Authorization)
decision indicates whether the information system is: (i) authorized to
operate; or (ii) not authorized to operate. For common controls, the
authorization decision means that the controls are approved for
[inheritance](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Inheritance) by
organizational information systems. The terms and conditions for the
authorization provide a description of any limitations or restrictions
placed on the operation of the information system or the implementation
of common controls that must be followed by the system owner or [common
control
provider](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Common_Control_Provider).
The [authorization termination
date](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:authorization_termination_date),
established by the [authorizing
official](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Authorizing_Official),
indicates when the [security
authorization](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Security_Authorization)
expires and reauthorization is required. An [authorizing official
designated
representative](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Authorizing_Official_Designated_Representative)
prepares the authorization decision document for the [authorizing
official](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Authorizing_Official)
with authorization recommendations, as appropriate. The authorization
decision document is attached to the original authorization package and
transmitted to the [information system
owner](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Information_System_Owner)
or [common control
provider](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Common_Control_Provider).\[9\]

Upon receipt of the authorization decision document and authorization
package, the [information system
owner](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Information_System_Owner)
or [common control
provider](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Common_Control_Provider)
accepts the terms and conditions of the authorization. The [information
system
owner](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Information_System_Owner)
or [common control
provider](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Common_Control_Provider)
retains the original authorization decision document and authorization
package.\[10\] The organization ensures that authorization documents for
information systems and for common controls are available to appropriate
organizational officials (e.g., information system owners inheriting
common controls, the risk executive \[function\], chief information
officers, senior information security officers, information system
security officers). The
[contents](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Contents) of the
[security
authorization](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Security_Authorization)
documentation, especially information regarding information system
vulnerabilities, are: (i) marked and appropriately
[protected](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Protected) in
accordance with federal/organizational policy; and (ii) retained in
accordance with the organization's record retention policy. The
[authorizing
official](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Authorizing_Official)
verifies on an ongoing basis, that the terms and conditions established
as part of the authorization are being followed by the [information
system
owner](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Information_System_Owner)
or [common control
provider](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Common_Control_Provider).

## F.4 ONGOING AUTHORIZATION

A robust and comprehensive continuous monitoring\[11\] strategy
integrated into the organization's [system development life
cycle](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:System_Development_Life_Cycle)
process, promotes [risk
management](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Risk_Management)
on an ongoing basis and can significantly reduce the resources required
for reauthorization, if required. Using automation and
state-of-the-practice tools, techniques, and procedures, [risk
management](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Risk_Management)
can become near
[real-time](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Real-Time) with
ongoing monitoring of [security
controls](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Security_Controls)
and changes to the information system and its environment of operation.
When monitoring is conducted in accordance with the needs of the
[authorizing
official](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Authorizing_Official),
that monitoring results in the production of [critical
information](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Critical_Information)
needed to determine: (i) the current security state of the information
system (including the effectiveness of the [security
controls](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Security_Controls)
employed within and inherited by the system) (ii) the resulting risks to
organizational operations, organizational assets, individuals, other
organizations, and the Nation; and (iii) whether to authorize continued
operation of the system or continued use of common controls inherited by
organizational information systems.

Continuous monitoring also helps to amortize the
[resource](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Resource)
expenditures for reauthorization activities over the authorization
period. The ultimate objective is to achieve a state of ongoing
authorization where the [authorizing
official](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Authorizing_Official)
maintains sufficient knowledge of the current security state of the
information system (including the effectiveness of the [security
controls](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Security_Controls)
employed within and inherited by the system) to determine whether
continued operation is acceptable based on ongoing risk determinations,
and if not, which step or steps in the [Risk
Management](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Risk_Management)
Framework needs to be re-executed in order to adequately mitigate the
additional risk. Formal reauthorization actions are avoided in
situations where the continuous monitoring process provides authorizing
officials the necessary information to manage the potential risk arising
from changes to the information system or its environment of operation.
Organizations maximize the use of status reports and critical security
state information produced during the continuous monitoring process to
minimize the level of effort required if a formal reauthorization action
is required. Formal reauthorization actions occur at the discretion of
the [authorizing
official](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Authorizing_Official)
in accordance with federal or organizational policy. If a formal
reauthorization action is required, organizations maximize the use of
security and risk-related information produced during the continuous
monitoring and ongoing authorization processes currently in effect.

Reauthorization actions, if initiated, can be either time-driven or
event-driven. Time-driven reauthorizations occur when the [authorization
termination
date](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:authorization_termination_date)
is reached. Authorization
[termination](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Termination)
dates are influenced by federal and/or organizational policies and by
the requirements of authorizing officials which may establish maximum
authorization periods. For example, if the maximum authorization period
for an information system is three years, then an organization
establishes a continuous monitoring strategy for assessing a subset of
the [security
controls](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Security_Controls)
employed within and inherited by the system during the authorization
period. This strategy allows all [security
controls](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Security_Controls)
designated in the respective security plans to be assessed at least one
time by the end of the three-year period. This also includes any common
controls deployed external to organizational information systems. If the
security control assessments are conducted by qualified assessors with
the required degree of independence based on federal/organizational
policies, appropriate security standards and guidelines, and the needs
of the [authorizing
official](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Authorizing_Official),
the [assessment](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Assessment)
results can be cumulatively applied to the reauthorization, thus
supporting the concept of ongoing authorization.\[12\] The
reauthorization action can be as simple as updating critical security
[status
information](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Status_Information)
in the authorization package (i.e., the [security
plan](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Security_Plan),
[security assessment
report](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:security_assessment_report),
and [plan of action and
milestones](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Plan_of_Action_and_Milestones)).
The [authorizing
official](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Authorizing_Official)
subsequently signs an updated authorization decision document based on
the current determination and
[acceptance](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Acceptance) of
risk to organizational operations and assets, individuals, other
organizations, and the Nation.\[13\]

Unless otherwise handled by continuous monitoring and ongoing
authorization, event-driven reauthorizations can occur when there is a
significant change to an information system or its environment of
operation. A significant change is defined as a change that has the
potential to affect the security state of an information system.
Significant changes to an information system may include for example:
(i) installation of a new or upgraded operating system,
[middleware](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Middleware)
component, or application; (ii) modifications to system ports,
protocols, or services; (iii) installation of a new or upgraded hardware
platform; ([iv](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=AnA:IV))
modifications to cryptographic modules or services; or (v) modifications
to [security
controls](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Security_Controls).
Examples of significant changes to the environment of operation may
include for example: (i) moving to a new
[facility](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Facility); (ii)
adding new core missions or business functions; (iii) acquiring specific
and credible threat information that the organization is being targeted
by a [threat
source](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Threat_Source); or
([iv](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=AnA:IV)) establishing
new/modified laws, directives, policies, or regulations. If a formal
reauthorization action is initiated, the organization targets only the
specific [security
controls](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Security_Controls)
affected by the changes and reuses previous
[assessment](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Assessment)
results wherever possible. Most [routine
changes](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Routine_Changes) to
an information system or its environment of operation can be handled by
the organization's continuous monitoring program, thus supporting the
concept of ongoing authorization. An effective monitoring program can
significantly reduce the overall cost and level of effort of
reauthorization actions.

In the event that there is a change in authorizing officials, the new
[authorizing
official](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Authorizing_Official)
reviews the current authorization decision document, authorization
package, and any updated documents created as a result of the ongoing
monitoring activities. If the new [authorizing
official](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Authorizing_Official)
is willing to accept the currently documented risk, then the official
signs a new authorization decision document, thus formally transferring
responsibility and
[accountability](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Accountability)
for the information system or the common controls inherited by
organizational information systems and explicitly accepting the risk to
organizational operations and assets, individuals, other organizations,
and the Nation.

If the new [authorizing
official](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Authorizing_Official)
is not willing to accept the previous authorization results (including
identified level of risk), a reauthorization action may need to be
initiated or the new [authorizing
official](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Authorizing_Official)
may instead establish new terms and conditions for continuing the
original authorization, but not extend the original [authorization
termination
date](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:authorization_termination_date).
In all situations where there is a decision to reauthorize an
information system or the common controls inherited by organizational
information systems, the maximum reuse of authorization information is
strongly encouraged to minimize the time and expense associated with the
reauthorization effort.\[14\]

## Sources

  - [NIST SP 800-37 Rev. 1 DRAFT Guide for Applying the Risk Management
    Framework to Federal Information Systems: A Security Life Cycle
    Approach](http://csrc.nist.gov/publications/drafts/800-37-Rev1/SP800-37-rev1-FPD.pdf)

[Category:GIC-NISTSP80037r1FPD](Category:GIC-NISTSP80037r1FPD "wikilink")

1.  The [authorizing
    official](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Authorizing_Official)
    determines what additional supporting documentation or
    [references](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:References)
    may be required to be included in the [security
    authorization](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Security_Authorization)
    package. Appropriate
    [measures](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Measures) are
    employed to protect information contained in [security
    authorization](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Security_Authorization)
    packages in accordance with federal and organizational policy.
2.  The [security
    plan](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Security_Plan) is a
    conceptual body of information which may be accounted for within one
    or more repositories and include documents (electronic or hard copy)
    that come from a variety of sources produced throughout the [system
    development life
    cycle](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:System_Development_Life_Cycle).
    For example, information system owners inheriting common controls
    can either list the controls in their respective security plans or
    [reference](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Reference)
    the controls contained in the security plans of [common
    control](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Common_Control)
    providers.
3.  Organizations may choose to develop an executive summary from the
    detailed findings that are generated during a [security control
    assessment](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Security_Control_Assessment).
    An executive summary provides an [authorizing
    official](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Authorizing_Official)
    with an abbreviated version of the [security assessment
    report](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:security_assessment_report)
    focusing on the highlights of the
    [assessment](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Assessment),
    synopsis of key findings, and recommendations for addressing
    weaknesses and deficiencies in the [security
    controls](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Security_Controls).
4.  Organizations may choose to document the specific
    [measures](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Measures)
    implemented to correct weaknesses or deficiencies in [security
    controls](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Security_Controls)
    in the [plan of action and
    milestones](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Plan_of_Action_and_Milestones),
    thereby providing an historical record of actions completed.
5.  In general, risk exposure is the degree to which an organization is
    threatened by the potential adverse effects on organizational
    operations and assets, individuals, other organizations, or the
    Nation.
6.  Organizations document their rationale for accepting security
    control weakness or deficiencies.
7.  An [interim authorization to
    test](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Interim_Authorization_to_Test)
    is a special type of authorization decision allowing an information
    system to operate in an [operational
    environment](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Operational_Environment)
    for the express purpose of testing the system with actual
    operational (i.e., live) data for a specified time period. An
    [interim authorization to
    test](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Interim_Authorization_to_Test)
    is granted by an [authorizing
    official](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Authorizing_Official)
    only when the [operational
    environment](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Operational_Environment)
    or live data is required to complete specific test objectives.
8.  Some organizations may choose to use the term [interim authorization
    to
    operate](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Interim_Authorization_to_Operate)
    to focus attention on the increased risk being accepted by the
    [authorizing
    official](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Authorizing_Official)
    in situations where there are significant weaknesses or deficiencies
    in the information system, but an overarching mission necessity
    requires placing the system into operation or continuing its
    operation.
9.  Authorization decision documents may be digitally signed to ensure
    [authenticity](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Authenticity).
10. Organizations may choose to employ automated tools to support the
    development, distribution, and archiving of [risk
    management](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Risk_Management)
    documentation to include
    [artifacts](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Artifacts)
    associated with the [security
    authorization](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Security_Authorization)
    process.
11. Continuous monitoring is described in Appendix G.
12. The specific conditions under which security-related information can
    be effectively reused in [security
    authorization](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Security_Authorization),
    ongoing authorization, and reauthorization is described in [NIST
    Special
    Publication 800-53A](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Doc:NIST_Special_Publication_800-53A).
13. Decisions to initiate a formal reauthorization action include inputs
    from the [risk executive
    (function)](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Risk_Executive_\(Function\))
    and the [senior information security
    officer](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Senior_Information_Security_Officer).
14. The decision to initiate a formal reauthorization action can be
    based on a variety of factors, including for example, the
    acceptability of the previous authorization information provided in
    the authorization package, the length of time since the previous
    authorization decision, the [risk
    tolerance](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Risk_Tolerance)
    of the new [authorizing
    official](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Authorizing_Official),
    and current organizational requirements and/or priorities.