|             |
| ----------- |
| __TOC__ |

<big>APPENDIX H</big>

<big>**OPERATIONAL SCENARIOS**</big>

APPLYING THE [RISK
MANAGEMENT](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Risk_Management)
FRAMEWORK IN DIFFERENT ENVIRONMENTS

Managing risk from information systems in modern computing environments
with a diverse set of potential business relationships can be
challenging for organizations. Relationships are established and
maintained in a variety of ways, for example, through joint ventures,
business partnerships, outsourcing arrangements (i.e., through
contracts, [lines of
business](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Lines_of_Business)
arrangements, interagency and intra-agency agreements), licensing
agreements, and [supply
chain](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Supply_Chain)
exchanges (i.e., [supply
chain](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Supply_Chain)
collaborations or partnerships).\[1\] The [Risk
Management](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Risk_Management)
Framework ([RMF](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=AnA:RMF)) applies
only to federal information systems. There are two distinct types of
operational scenarios that affect how organizations address the
[RMF](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=AnA:RMF) steps and
associated tasks:

  - Information systems used or operated by federal agencies;\[2\] and
  - Information systems used or operated by other organizations\[3\] on
    behalf of federal agencies.

SCENARIO 1: For an information system that is used or operated by a
[federal
agency](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Federal_Agency), the
system [boundary](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Boundary)
is defined by the agency. The agency conducts all
[RMF](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=AnA:RMF) tasks to include
information system authorization. The agency maintains control over the
[security
controls](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Security_Controls)
employed within and inherited by the information system.

SCENARIO 2: For an information system that is used or operated by
another organization on behalf of a [federal
agency](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Federal_Agency), the
system [boundary](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Boundary)
is defined by the agency in collaboration with the other organization
and one of the following situations applies:

  -
    \- If the organization is contracted to a [federal
    agency](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Federal_Agency),
    the
    [contractor](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Contractor)
    can conduct all [RMF](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=AnA:RMF)
    tasks except those tasks which must be carried out by the [federal
    agency](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Federal_Agency)
    as part of its inherent governmental responsibilities.\[4\] The
    agency provides
    [RMF](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=AnA:RMF)-related inputs
    to the
    [contractor](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Contractor),
    as needed, and maintains strict oversight on all
    [contractor](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Contractor)-executed
    [RMF](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=AnA:RMF) tasks. The
    [contractor](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Contractor)
    provides appropriate evidence in the [security
    authorization](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Security_Authorization)
    package for the authorization decision by the [authorizing
    official](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Authorizing_Official)
    from the [federal
    agency](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Federal_Agency).
    \- If the organization is a [federal
    agency](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Federal_Agency),
    the organization can conduct all
    [RMF](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=AnA:RMF) tasks to
    include the information system authorization. The information system
    authorization can also be a joint authorization if both parties
    agree to share the authorization responsibilities. In situations
    where a [federal
    agency](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Federal_Agency)
    uses or operates an information system on behalf of multiple federal
    agencies, the joint authorization can include all participating
    agencies.

## Footnotes

<references />

## Sources

  - [NIST SP 800-37 Rev. 1 DRAFT Guide for Applying the Risk Management
    Framework to Federal Information Systems: A Security Life Cycle
    Approach](http://csrc.nist.gov/publications/drafts/800-37-Rev1/SP800-37-rev1-FPD.pdf)

[Category:GIC-NISTSP80037r1FPD](Category:GIC-NISTSP80037r1FPD "wikilink")

1.  NIST [Special
    Publication 800-53](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Doc:Special_Publication_800-53)
    provides additional guidance on the application and use of [security
    controls](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Security_Controls)
    in external environments to include relationships with external
    service providers.
2.  References to federal agencies include organizations that are
    subordinate to those agencies.
3.  Organizations that use or operate an information system on behalf of
    a [federal
    agency](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Federal_Agency)
    or one of its subordinate organizations can include, for example,
    other federal agencies or their subordinate organizations, state and
    local government agencies, contractors, and academic institutions.
4.  Organizations ensure that requirements for conducting the specific
    tasks in the [RMF](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=AnA:RMF)
    are included in appropriate contractual vehicles, including
    requirements for independent assessments, when appropriate.