|             |
| ----------- |
| __TOC__ |

<big>APPENDIX I</big>

<big>**SECURITY CONTROLS IN EXTERNAL ENVIRONMENTS**</big>

PARTNERSHIPS, OUTSOURCING ARRANGEMENTS, [SUPPLY
CHAIN](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Supply_Chain)
EXCHANGES

Organizations are becoming increasingly reliant on information system
services provided by external providers to carry out important missions
and business functions. [External information
system](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:External_Information_System)
services are services implemented outside of the authorization
boundaries established by the organization for its information systems.
These external services may be used by, but are not part of,
organizational information systems. In some situations, [external
information
system](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:External_Information_System)
services may completely replace the functionality of internal
information systems. Organizations are responsible and accountable for
the risk incurred by use of services provided by external providers and
address this risk by implementing [compensating
controls](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Compensating_Controls)
when the risk is greater than the [authorizing
official](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Authorizing_Official)
or the organization is willing to accept.

Relationships with external service providers are established in a
variety of ways, for example, through joint ventures, business
partnerships, outsourcing arrangements (i.e., through contracts,
interagency agreements, [lines of
business](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Lines_of_Business)
arrangements), licensing agreements, and/or [supply
chain](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Supply_Chain)
exchanges. The growing dependence on external service providers and new
relationships being forged with those providers present new and
difficult challenges for the organization, especially in the area of
information system security. These challenges include:

  - Defining the types of external services provided to the
    organization;
  - Describing how the external services are
    [protected](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Protected) in
    accordance with the [security
    requirements](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Security_Requirements)
    of the organization; and
  - Obtaining the necessary assurances that the risk to organizational
    operations and assets, individuals, other organizations, and the
    Nation arising from the use of the external services is acceptable.

FISMA and OMB policy require external providers handling federal
information or operating information systems on behalf of the federal
government to meet the same [security
requirements](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Security_Requirements)
as federal agencies. [Security
requirements](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Security_Requirements)
for external providers including the [security
controls](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Security_Controls)
for information systems
[processing](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Processing),
storing, or transmitting federal information are expressed in
appropriate contracts or other formal agreements. Organizations can
require external providers to implement all steps in the
[RMF](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=AnA:RMF) with the
[exception](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Exception) of the
[security
authorization](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Security_Authorization)
step, which remains an inherent federal responsibility that is directly
linked to the management of risk related to the use of [external
information
system](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:External_Information_System)
services.

The assurance or confidence that the risk from using external services
is at an acceptable level depends on the trust\[1\] that the
organization places in the external [service
provider](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Service_Provider).
In some cases, the level of trust is based on the amount of direct
control the organization is able to exert on the external [service
provider](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Service_Provider)
with regard to employment of [security
controls](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Security_Controls)
necessary for the protection of the service and the evidence brought
forth as to the effectiveness of those controls.

The level of control is usually established by the terms and conditions
of the [contract](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Contract)
or service-level agreement with the external [service
provider](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Service_Provider)
and can range from extensive (e.g., negotiating a
[contract](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Contract) or
agreement that specifies detailed security control requirements for the
provider) to very limited (e.g., using a
[contract](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Contract) or
service-level agreement to obtain commodity services\[2\] such as
commercial telecommunications services). In other cases, the level of
trust is based on factors that convince the organization that the
requisite [security
controls](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Security_Controls)
have been employed and that a credible determination of control
effectiveness exists. For example, a separately authorized [external
information system
service](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:External_Information_System_Service)
provided to an organization through a well-established [line of
business](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Line_of_Business)
relationship may provide a degree of trust in the external service
within the tolerable risk range of the [authorizing
official](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Authorizing_Official).

The provision of services by external providers may result in some
services without explicit agreements between the organization and the
external entities responsible for the services. Whenever explicit
agreements are feasible and practical (e.g., through contracts,
service-level agreements, etc.), the organization develops such
agreements and requires the use of the [security
controls](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Security_Controls)
in [Special
Publication 800-53](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Doc:Special_Publication_800-53).
When the organization is not in a position to require explicit
agreements with external providers (e.g., the service is imposed on the
organization or the service is [commodity
service](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Commodity_Service)),
the organization establishes explicit assumptions about the service
capabilities with regard to security. In situations where an
organization is procuring information system services or technologies
through a centralized acquisition vehicle (e.g., governmentwide
[contract](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Contract) by the
[General Services
Administration](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=General_Services_Administration)
or other preferred and/or mandatory [acquisition
organization](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Acquisition_Organization)),
it may be more efficient and cost-effective for the originator of the
[contract](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Contract) to
establish and maintain a stated level of trust with the external
provider (including the definition of required [security
controls](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Security_Controls)
and level of assurance with regard to the provision of such controls).
Organizations subsequently acquiring information system services or
technologies from the centralized
[contract](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Contract) can take
advantage of the negotiated trust level established by the
[procurement](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Procurement)
originator and thus avoid costly repetition of the activities necessary
to establish such trust.\[3\] Contracts and agreements between the
organization and external providers may also require the active
participation of the organization. For example, the organization may be
required by the
[contract](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Contract) to
install public key encryption-enabled client software recommended by the
[service
provider](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Service_Provider).

Ultimately, the responsibility for adequately mitigating unacceptable
risks arising from the use of [external information
system](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:External_Information_System)
services remains with the [authorizing
official](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Authorizing_Official).
Organizations require that an appropriate [chain of
trust](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Chain_of_Trust) be
established with external service providers when dealing with the many
issues associated with information system security. A [chain of
trust](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Chain_of_Trust)
requires that the organization establish and retain a level of
confidence that each participating [service
provider](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Service_Provider)
in the potentially complex
[consumer](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Consumer)-provider
relationship provides adequate protection for the services rendered to
the organization. The [chain of
trust](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Chain_of_Trust) can be
complicated due to the number of entities participating in the
[consumer](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Consumer)-provider
relationship and the type of relationship between the parties. External
service providers may also in turn outsource the services to other
external entities, making the [chain of
trust](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Chain_of_Trust) even
more complicated and difficult to manage. Depending on the nature of the
service, it may simply be unwise for the organization to place
significant trust in the provider—not due to any inherent
untrustworthiness on the provider's part, but due to the intrinsic level
of risk in the service. Where a sufficient level of trust cannot be
established in the external services and/or service providers, the
organization: (i) employs [compensating
controls](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Compensating_Controls);
(ii) accepts a greater degree of risk; or (iii) does not obtain the
service (i.e., performs missions or business operations with reduced
levels of functionality or possibly no functionality at all).

## Sources

  - [NIST SP 800-37 Rev. 1 DRAFT Guide for Applying the Risk Management
    Framework to Federal Information Systems: A Security Life Cycle
    Approach](http://csrc.nist.gov/publications/drafts/800-37-Rev1/SP800-37-rev1-FPD.pdf)

[Category:GIC-NISTSP80037r1FPD](Category:GIC-NISTSP80037r1FPD "wikilink")

1.  The level of trust that an organization places in an external
    [service
    provider](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Service_Provider)
    can vary widely, ranging from those who are highly trusted (e.g.,
    business partners in a [joint
    venture](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Joint_Venture)
    that share a common business model and common goals) to those who
    are less trusted and represent greater sources of risk (e.g.,
    business partners in one endeavor who are also competitors in
    another market sector).
2.  Commercial providers of commodity-type services typically organize
    their business models and services around the concept of shared
    resources and devices for a broad and diverse
    [customer](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Customer)
    base. Therefore, unless organizations obtain fully dedicated
    services from commercial service providers, there may be a need for
    greater reliance on [compensating security
    controls](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Compensating_Security_Controls)
    to provide the necessary protections for the information system that
    relies on those external services. The organization's [risk
    assessment](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Risk_Assessment)
    and [risk
    mitigation](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Risk_Mitigation)
    activities reflect this situation.
3.  For example, a
    [procurement](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Procurement)
    originator could authorize an information system providing external
    services to the federal government under specific terms and
    conditions of the
    [contract](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Contract). A
    [federal
    agency](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Federal_Agency)
    requesting information system services under the terms of the
    [contract](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Contract)
    would not be required to reauthorize the information system when
    acquiring such services (unless the request included services
    outside the scope of the original
    [contract](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Contract)).