|             |
| ----------- |
| __TOC__ |

<big>CHAPTER TWO</big>

<big>**THE FUNDAMENTALS**</big>

BASIC CONCEPTS ASSOCIATED WITH MANAGING RISK FROM INFORMATION SYSTEMS

This chapter describes the basic concepts associated with managing
information security-related risks from information systems. These
concepts include: (i) incorporating [risk
management](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Risk_Management)
principles and best practices into organization-wide strategic planning
considerations, core missions and business processes, and supporting
organizational information systems; (ii) integrating information
[security
requirements](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Security_Requirements)
into [system development life
cycle](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:System_Development_Life_Cycle)
processes; (iii) establishing practical and meaningful boundaries for
organizational information systems; and
([iv](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=AnA:IV)) allocating
[security
controls](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Security_Controls)
to organizational information systems as system-specific, hybrid, or
common controls.

## 2.1 INTEGRATED ENTERPRISE-WIDE RISK MANAGEMENT

Managing risks from information systems is a complex, multifaceted
undertaking that requires the involvement of the entire
organization—from the senior leaders providing the strategic vision
and top-level goals and objectives for the organization, to the
mid-level leaders managing projects and implementing systems, to the
individuals on the front lines developing, implementing, and operating
the systems supporting the organization's core missions and business
processes. [Risk
management](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Risk_Management)
can be viewed as a holistic
[activity](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Activity) that is
fully integrated into every aspect of the organization. Figure 2-1
illustrates a hierarchical, three-tiered approach to [risk
management](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Risk_Management)
that addresses risk-related concerns at: (i) the *organization* level;
(ii) the *mission and business process* level; and (iii) the
*information system* level.\[1\]

![80037r1FPD_Figure2-1.png](80037r1FPD_Figure2-1.png
"80037r1FPD_Figure2-1.png")

Risk management at Tier 1 addresses risk from the organizational
perspective with the development of a comprehensive governance structure
and enterprise-wide [risk
management](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Risk_Management)
strategy that includes: (i) the techniques and methodologies the
organization plans to employ to assess risk from information systems and
other types of risk of concern to the organization;\[2\] (ii) the
methods and procedures the organization plans to use to evaluate the
significance of the risks identified during the [risk
assessment](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Risk_Assessment);
(iii) the types and extent of [risk
mitigation](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Risk_Mitigation)
[measures](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Measures) the
organization plans to employ to address identified risks;
([iv](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=AnA:IV)) the level of risk
the organization plans to accept (i.e., [risk
tolerance](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Risk_Tolerance));
(v) how the organization plans to monitor risk on an ongoing basis given
the inevitable changes to organizational information systems and their
environments of operation; and (vi) the degree and type of oversight the
organization plans to use to ensure that the [risk
management](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Risk_Management)
strategy is being effectively carried out. As part of the overall
governance structure established by the organization, the [risk
management](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Risk_Management)
strategy is propagated to organizational officials and support
contractors with developmental, operational, and oversight
responsibilities, including for example: (i) authorizing officials
(including mission and business owners); (ii) chief information
officers; (iii) senior information security officers;
([iv](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=AnA:IV))
enterprise/information security architects; (v) information system
owners/program managers; (vi) information owners/stewards; (vii)
information system security officers; (viii) information system security
engineers; (ix) information system developers and integrators; (x)
system administrators; and (xi) users.

Managing risk at Tier 2 addresses risk from a *mission* and *business
process* perspective and is guided by the [risk
management](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Risk_Management)-related
decisions taken at Tier 1. Tier 2 activities are integral to enterprise
architecture\[3\] and organizational assessments of risk and include:
(i) defining the core missions and business processes for the
organization (including any derivative or related missions and business
processes carried out by subordinate organizations); (ii) prioritizing
missions and business processes with respect to the goals and objectives
of the organization; (iii) defining the types of information that the
organization needs to successfully execute the stated missions and
business processes and the information flows both internal and external
to the organization; and
([iv](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=AnA:IV)) developing an
organization-wide information protection strategy and incorporating
high-level information [security
requirements](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Security_Requirements)
into the core missions and business processes; (v) specifying the degree
of autonomy for subordinate organizations (i.e., organizations within
the [parent
organization](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Parent_Organization))
that the [parent
organization](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Parent_Organization)
permits for assessing, evaluating, mitigating, accepting, and monitoring
risk.

The [first](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=AnA:FIRST) two
activities are necessary because there may be different priorities
associated with organizational missions and business processes
(including derivative or related missions and business processes) that
need to be factored into the weighting of risk calculations—both within
specific elements of the organization as well as for the overall [risk
tolerance](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Risk_Tolerance) of
the organization. The early incorporation of information [security
requirements](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Security_Requirements)
into the organization's missions and business processes helps to ensure
that risk-related considerations are effectively integrated into the
organization's [enterprise
architecture](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Enterprise_Architecture)
and [system development life
cycle](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:System_Development_Life_Cycle)
processes. The last
[activity](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Activity) reflects
the diversity of mission/business needs and the availability of
resources across the organization. Because subordinate organizations
responsible for carrying out derivative or related missions and business
processes may have already invested in their own methods of assessing,
evaluating, mitigating, accepting and monitoring risk, parent
organizations may allow a greater degree of autonomy within parts of the
organization or across the entire organization in order to minimize
costs. When a diversity of [risk
assessment](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Risk_Assessment)
methods is allowed, organizations employ some means of translation
and/or synthesis of the risk-related information to ensure that the
output of the different [risk
assessment](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Risk_Assessment)
activities can be correlated in a meaningful manner.

Risk management at Tier 3 addresses risk from an *information system*
perspective and is guided by the [risk
management](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Risk_Management)
decisions taken at Tier 2. [Risk
management](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Risk_Management)
decisions taken at Tier 2 impact the ultimate selection and deployment
of needed safeguards and countermeasures (i.e., [security
controls](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Security_Controls))
at the information [system
level](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:System_Level).
Information [security
requirements](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Security_Requirements)
are satisfied by the selection of appropriate management, operational,
and [technical
security](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Technical_Security)
controls from [NIST Special
Publication 800-53](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Doc:NIST_Special_Publication_800-53).
The [security
controls](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Security_Controls)
are subsequently allocated to the various components of the information
system as system-specific, hybrid, or common controls.\[4\] [Security
controls](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Security_Controls)
can be provided by the organization or by an external provider.
Relationships with external providers are established in a variety of
ways, for example, through joint ventures, business partnerships,
outsourcing arrangements (i.e., through contracts, interagency
agreements, [lines of
business](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Lines_of_Business)
arrangements), licensing agreements, and/or [supply
chain](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Supply_Chain)
exchanges.\[5\]

Risk management tasks begin early in the [system development life
cycle](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:System_Development_Life_Cycle)
and are important in shaping the security capabilities of the
information system. If these tasks are not adequately performed during
the initiation, development, and acquisition phases of the [system
development life
cycle](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:System_Development_Life_Cycle),
the tasks will, by necessity, be undertaken later in the [life
cycle](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Life_Cycle) and be
more costly to implement. In either situation, all tasks are completed
prior to placing the information system into operation or continuing its
operation to ensure that: (i) [information system-related security
risks](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Information_System-related_Security_Risks)
are being adequately addressed on an ongoing basis; and (ii) the
[authorizing
official](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Authorizing_Official)
explicitly understands and accepts the risk to organizational operations
and assets, individuals, other organizations, and the Nation based on
the implementation of a defined set of [security
controls](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Security_Controls)
and the current security state of the information system.

Tier 3 [risk
management](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Risk_Management)
assumes the integration and tight coupling of the six-step [Risk
Management](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Risk_Management)
Framework ([RMF](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=AnA:RMF)) into
the [system development life
cycle](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:System_Development_Life_Cycle).
The framework, illustrated in Figure 2-2, provides a disciplined and
structured process that operates within the [system development life
cycle](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:System_Development_Life_Cycle)
to effectively manage [information system-related security
risks](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Information_System-related_Security_Risks).
The [RMF](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=AnA:RMF) steps include:

  - ***Categorizing*** the information system and the information
    processed, stored, and transmitted by that system based on a
    worst-case impact analysis.\[6\]
  - ***Selecting*** an initial set of [baseline
    security](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Baseline_Security)
    controls for the information system based on the [security
    categorization](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Security_Categorization);
    [tailoring](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Tailoring)
    and supplementing the [security control
    baseline](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Security_Control_Baseline)
    as needed based on an organizational
    [assessment](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Assessment)
    of risk and local conditions.\[7\]
  - *Implementing* the [security
    controls](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Security_Controls)
    and describing how the controls are employed within the information
    system and its environment of operation.
  - *Assessing* the [security
    controls](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Security_Controls)
    using appropriate
    [assessment](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Assessment)
    procedures to determine the extent to which the controls are
    implemented correctly, operating as intended, and producing the
    desired outcome with respect to meeting the [security
    requirements](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Security_Requirements)
    for the system.
  - *Authorizing* information system operation based on a determination
    of the risk to organizational operations and assets, individuals,
    other organizations, and the Nation resulting from the operation of
    the information system and the decision that this risk is
    acceptable.
  - *Monitoring* the [security
    controls](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Security_Controls)
    in the information system on an ongoing basis including assessing
    control effectiveness, documenting changes to the system or its
    environment of operation, conducting security impact analyses of the
    associated changes, nvironment of operation, conducting security
    impact analyses of the associated changes, and
    [reporting](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Reporting)
    the security state of the system to designated organizational
    officials.

Chapter Three provides a detailed description of each of the specific
tasks necessary to carry out the six steps in the
[RMF](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=AnA:RMF).

![80037r1FPD_Figure2-2.png](80037r1FPD_Figure2-2.png
"80037r1FPD_Figure2-2.png")

In summary, there is a significant degree of flexibility in how
organizations employ the [risk
management](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Risk_Management)
processes described above. While it is convenient to portray the [risk
management](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Risk_Management)
approach in Figure 2-1 as hierarchical, the reality of project and
organization dynamics can be much more complex. The organizational
management style may be at one or more points on the continuum from
top-down command to consensus among peers. For [risk
management](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Risk_Management)
to succeed at all levels of the organization, the organization must have
a consistent and effective approach to [risk
management](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Risk_Management)
that is applied to all [risk
management](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Risk_Management)
processes and procedures.

## 2.2 SYSTEM DEVELOPMENT LIFE CYCLE

All federal information systems, including operational systems, systems
under development, and systems undergoing modification or upgrade, are
in some phase of the [system development life
cycle](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:System_Development_Life_Cycle).\[8\]
Requirements definition is a critical part of the system development
process and begins very early in the [life
cycle](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Life_Cycle), typically
in the *system initiation* phase.\[9\] [Security
requirements](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Security_Requirements)
are a subset of the overall functional requirements levied on an
information system and therefore, whenever possible, are incorporated
into the [system development life
cycle](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:System_Development_Life_Cycle)
at the earliest opportunity. Without the early infusion of [security
requirements](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Security_Requirements),
significant expense may be incurred by the organization later in the
[life cycle](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Life_Cycle) to
address security considerations that could have been included in the
initial design. This may also result in less than effective information
security solutions. Organizations prioritize information system
requirements, both functional and security-related, in accordance with
the strategic objectives of the organization, its core missions and
business processes, and operational considerations.

Integrating information [security
requirements](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Security_Requirements)
into the [system development life
cycle](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:System_Development_Life_Cycle)
is the most cost-effective and efficient method for an organization to
ensure that its protection strategy is implemented. It also ensures that
information security processes are not isolated from the other routine
management processes employed by the organization to develop, implement,
operate, and maintain information systems supporting ongoing missions
and business functions. In addition to incorporating information
[security
requirements](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Security_Requirements)
into the [system development life
cycle](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:System_Development_Life_Cycle),
[security
requirements](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Security_Requirements)
are also integrated into the program, planning, and budgeting activities
within the organization to ensure that the resources are available when
needed. The [enterprise
architecture](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Enterprise_Architecture)
provides a central record of this integration within an organization. As
part of their ongoing management and oversight responsibilities,
organizational officials ensure that adequate resources are allocated to
information security. Organizational officials identify the resources
necessary to complete the [risk
management](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Risk_Management)
tasks described in this publication and ensure that those resources are
made available to appropriate personnel.
[Resource](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Resource)
allocation includes both funding to carry out the [risk
management](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Risk_Management)
tasks and assigning the personnel needed to accomplish the tasks.\[10\]

Using the well-established concept of *integrated project teams*,\[11\]
security professionals are an integral part of any information
system-related development activities. Making information [security
requirements](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Security_Requirements)
an integral part of all types of [system development life
cycle](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:System_Development_Life_Cycle)
processes (e.g., waterfall, spiral, agile development) helps to ensure
that senior leaders consider information security risks to
organizational operations and assets, individuals, other organizations,
and the Nation and take appropriate actions to mitigate these risks.
Such consideration is used to foster close cooperation among personnel
responsible for the design, development, implementation, operation,
[maintenance](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Maintenance),
and
[disposition](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Disposition) of
information systems and the information security professionals advising
the senior leadership on appropriate [security
controls](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Security_Controls)
needed to adequately mitigate risk and protect critical missions and
business functions.

Finally, organizations maximize the use of [security-relevant
information](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Security-Relevant_Information)
(e.g.,
[assessment](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Assessment)
results, information system documentation, and other
[artifacts](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Artifacts))
generated during the [system development life
cycle](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:System_Development_Life_Cycle)
to satisfy requirements for similar information needed for information
security-related purposes. Similar [security-relevant
information](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Security-Relevant_Information)
concerning common controls, including controls provided by external
providers, is factored into the organization's [risk
management](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Risk_Management)
process. Reuse of information is an effective method to help eliminate
duplication of effort, reduce documentation, and avoid unnecessary costs
that may result when security activities are conducted independently of
[system development life
cycle](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:System_Development_Life_Cycle)
processes. In addition, reuse promotes greater consistency of
information used in the design, development, implementation, operation,
[maintenance](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Maintenance),
and
[disposition](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Disposition) of
an information system including security-related considerations.

## 2.3 INFORMATION SYSTEM BOUNDARIES

One of the most challenging problems for information system owners,
authorizing officials, chief information officers, senior information
security officers, and information security architects is identifying
appropriate boundaries for organizational information systems.
Well-defined boundaries establish the scope of protection for
organizational information systems (i.e., what the organization agrees
to protect under its direct [management
control](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Management_Control)
or within the scope of its responsibilities) and include the people,
processes, and information technologies that are part of the systems
supporting the organization's missions and business processes.
[Information system
boundaries](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Information_System_Boundaries)
need to be established in
[coordination](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Coordination)
with the [security
categorization](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Security_Categorization)
process and before the development of security plans. [Information
system
boundaries](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Information_System_Boundaries)
that are too expansive (i.e., too many system components and/or
unnecessary architectural complexity) make the [risk
management](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Risk_Management)
process extremely unwieldy and complex. Boundaries that are too limited
increase the number of information systems that must be separately
managed and as a consequence, unnecessarily inflate the total
information security costs for the organization. The following sections
provide general guidelines to assist organizations in establishing
appropriate system boundaries to achieve cost-effective solutions for
managing information security-related risks from the operation and use
of information systems.

### 2.3.1 Establishing [Information System Boundaries](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Information_System_Boundaries)

The allocation of information resources\[12\] to an information system
defines the
[boundary](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Boundary) for that
system. Organizations have significant flexibility in determining what
constitutes an information system. If a set of [information
resources](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Information_Resources)
is identified as an information system, the resources are generally
under the same direct [management
control](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Management_Control).\[13\]
Direct [management
control](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Management_Control)
does not necessarily imply that there is no intervening management. It
is possible for multiple information systems to be validly considered as
independent *subsystems*\[14\] of a larger and more complex system
provided all of the subsystems fall under the same management authority.
This situation may arise in many organizations when smaller information
systems are coalesced for purposes of [risk
management](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Risk_Management)
into a larger, more comprehensive system. In addition to consideration
of direct [management
control](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Management_Control),
it may also be helpful for organizations to consider if the [information
resources](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Information_Resources)
being identified as an information system:

  - Support the same mission/business objectives or functions and
    essentially the same operating characteristics and information
    [security
    requirements](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Security_Requirements);
    and
  - Reside in the same general operating environment (or in the case of
    a distributed information system, reside in various locations with
    similar operating environments).\[15\]

While the above considerations may be useful to organizations in
determining [information system
boundaries](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Information_System_Boundaries)
for purposes of [risk
management](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Risk_Management),
they are not viewed as limiting the organization's flexibility in
establishing commonsense boundaries that promote effective information
security within the available resources of the organization. Information
system owners consult with authorizing officials, chief information
officers, senior information security officers, the [risk executive
(function)](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Risk_Executive_\(Function\)),\[16\]
and information security architects when establishing or changing system
boundaries. The process of establishing boundaries for information
systems and the associated [risk
management](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Risk_Management)
implications is an organization-level
[activity](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Activity) that
includes careful negotiation among all key participants—taking into
account mission and business requirements, technical considerations with
respect to information security, and programmatic costs to the
organization.

Software *applications* are included in the
[boundary](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Boundary) of an
information system hosting the applications and do not require a
separate [risk
management](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Risk_Management)
process (including a separate [security
authorization](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Security_Authorization)).
Rather, software applications take advantage of the [security
controls](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Security_Controls)
provided by the hosting information system to help provide a
foundational [level of
protection](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Level_of_Protection)
for the hosted applications. Additional application-level [security
controls](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Security_Controls)
are provided by the respective software applications, as needed.
Employing strong [configuration
management](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Configuration_Management)
and control processes within the hosting information system and reusing
[assessment](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Assessment)
evidence of security control effectiveness helps to provide the
necessary protection for applications. [Security
controls](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Security_Controls)
provided by the hosted software application are documented in the
[security
plan](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Security_Plan) for the
hosting information system and assessed for effectiveness during the
[risk
management](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Risk_Management)
process (including during the initial authorization or subsequent to the
initial authorization if the applications are added after the system is
authorized to operate). Organizations ensure that all [security
controls](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Security_Controls),
including application-level controls employed in separate software
applications, are managed and tracked on an ongoing basis. Information
system owners ensure that hosted applications do not affect the security
state of the hosting system. Information system owners obtain the
necessary information from hosted applications to conduct security
impact analyses, when needed.

### 2.3.2 Boundaries for Complex Information Systems (System of Systems)

The application of [security
controls](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Security_Controls)
within a large and complex information system (or system of systems) can
present significant challenges to an organization. From a centralized
development, implementation, and operations perspective, the
[information system
owner](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Information_System_Owner),
in collaboration with the [authorizing
official](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Authorizing_Official),
[senior information security
officer](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Senior_Information_Security_Officer),
information security architect, and [information system security
engineer](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Information_System_Security_Engineer),
examines the purpose of the information system and considers the
feasibility of decomposing the complex system into more manageable
components, or *subsystems*. From a distributed development,
implementation, and operations perspective the organization recognizes
that multiple entities, possibly operating under different policies, may
be contributing to the development, implementation, and/or operations of
the subsystems that comprise the overall information system. In such a
scenario, the organization is responsible for ensuring that these
separate subsystems can work together in both a secure and functional
manner. Treating an information system as multiple subsystems, each with
its own
[subsystem](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Subsystem)
[boundary](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Boundary),
facilitates a more targeted application of [security
controls](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Security_Controls)
to achieve [adequate
security](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Adequate_Security)
and a more cost-effective [risk
management](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Risk_Management)
process. The decomposition into
[subsystem](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Subsystem)
components is reflected in the [security
plan](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Security_Plan) for that
complex system (or system of systems).

Information security
[architecture](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Architecture)
plays a key part in the security control selection and allocation
process for a large and complex information system (or system of
systems). This includes monitoring and controlling communications at key
internal boundaries and providing system-wide *common controls* (see
Section 2.4) that meet or exceed the requirements of the constituent
subsystems inheriting those system-wide common controls. One approach to
control selection and allocation is to categorize each identified
[subsystem](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Subsystem)
(including dynamic subsystems as described in Section 2.3.3). Separately
categorizing each
[subsystem](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Subsystem) does
not change the overall categorization of the information system. Rather,
it allows the constituent subsystems to receive a separate allocation of
[security
controls](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Security_Controls)
from [NIST Special
Publication 800-53](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Doc:NIST_Special_Publication_800-53)
instead of deploying higher impact controls across every
[subsystem](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Subsystem).
Another approach is to bundle smaller subsystems into larger subsystems
within the overall complex information system, categorize each of the
aggregated subsystems, and allocate [security
controls](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Security_Controls)
to the subsystems, as appropriate. While subsystems of complex
information systems may sometimes exist as full systems, for complex
systems, these portions of the system are not treated as independent
entities because the subsystems are typically interdependent and
interconnected.

In addition to protecting the external
[boundary](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Boundary) of a
large and complex information system (or system of systems), the
organization may, as part of the information security
[architecture](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Architecture),
implement [boundary
protection](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Boundary_Protection)
between subsystems (possibly represented by different security domains).
Such internal [boundary
protection](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Boundary_Protection)
is part of an overall
[defense-in-depth](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Defense-In-Depth)
[architecture](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Architecture)
implemented by the organization. The policy implemented in each
[boundary protection
device](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Boundary_Protection_Device)
may be specific to the permitted information flows through that
[boundary](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Boundary), but is
also consistent with the information security
[architecture](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Architecture)
for the organization as a whole.

When the results of security categorizations for the identified
subsystems are different, the organization carefully examines the
interfaces among subsystems and selects [security
controls](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Security_Controls)
for interconnection of the subsystems to eliminate or reduce potential
vulnerabilities in this area. This helps to ensure that the information
system (at large) is adequately
[protected](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Protected).\[17\]
[Security
controls](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Security_Controls)
for interconnection of subsystems are also employed when the subsystems
implement different security policies or are administered by different
authorities (i.e., the subsystems belong to different security domains).
Common controls provided by different organization often require such
[boundary
protection](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Boundary_Protection)
[interface
controls](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Interface_Controls).
The extent to which the [security
controls](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Security_Controls)
are implemented correctly, operating as intended, and producing the
desired outcome with respect to meeting the [security
requirements](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Security_Requirements)
for the complex system, can be determined by combining security control
assessments at the
[subsystem](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Subsystem) level
and adding system-level considerations addressing interface issues among
subsystems. This approach facilitates a more targeted and cost-effective
[risk
management](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Risk_Management)
process by scaling the level of effort in accordance with that
subsystem's [security
categorization](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Security_Categorization)
and allowing for reuse of
[assessment](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Assessment)
results at the [system
level](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:System_Level). Figure
2-3 illustrates the concept of decomposition for a complex information
system.

  - [Security
    plan](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Security_Plan)
    reflects information system decomposition with [security
    controls](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Security_Controls)
    assigned to each
    [subsystem](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Subsystem)
    component.
  - [Security
    assessment](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Security_Assessment)
    procedures tailored for the [security
    controls](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Security_Controls)
    in each
    [subsystem](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Subsystem)
    component and for the combined [system
    level](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:System_Level).
  - [Security control
    assessment](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Security_Control_Assessment)
    performed on each
    [subsystem](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Subsystem)
    component and on system-level controls not covered by
    [subsystem](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Subsystem)
    security control assessments.
  - [Security
    authorization](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Security_Authorization)
    conducted on the information system as a whole.

![80037r1FPD_Figure2-3.png](80037r1FPD_Figure2-3.png
"80037r1FPD_Figure2-3.png")

In the above example, an information system contains a system guard that
monitors the flow of information between two local area networks. The
information system, in this case, can be partitioned into multiple
[subsystem](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Subsystem)
components: (i) [local area
network](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Local_Area_Network)
one; (ii) [local area
network](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Local_Area_Network)
two; (iii) the system guard separating the two networks; and
([iv](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=AnA:IV)) several dynamic
subsystems that become part of the system at various points in time (see
Section 2.3.3). Each
[subsystem](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Subsystem)
component within the information system may be categorized individually.
The [security
categorization](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Security_Categorization)
of the information system is determined by taking into consideration all
of the individual
[subsystem](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Subsystem)
categorizations. When all subsystems within the information system have
completed the [security control
assessment](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Security_Control_Assessment),
an additional
[assessment](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Assessment) is
performed on the system-level [security
controls](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Security_Controls)
not covered by the individual
[subsystem](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Subsystem)
assessments, and the results are bundled together into the authorization
package and presented as evidence to the authorizing official.

### 2.3.3 Dynamic Subsystems

For many information systems,, the determination of subsystems is
established at system initiation and maintained throughout the [life
cycle](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Life_Cycle) of the
system. However, there are some instances, most notably in
[net-centric](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Net-Centric)
[architectures](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Architectures)
(e.g., cloud computing, service-oriented
[architectures](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Architectures)),\[18\]
where the subsystems that compose the system may not be present at all
stages of the [life
cycle](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Life_Cycle). Some
subsystems may not become part of an information system until sometime
after system initiation, while other subsystems may leave the system
sometime prior to system
[termination](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Termination).
Generally, this will not impact the external
[boundary](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Boundary) of the
information system if the dynamic subsystems are in the system design
and the appropriate [security
controls](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Security_Controls)
are reflected in the [security
plan](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Security_Plan). But it
does impact the subsystems that exist within the
[boundary](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Boundary) at any
given point in time.

Dynamic subsystems that become part of an organizational information
system at various points in time may or may not be under the direct
control of the organization. These subsystems may be provided by
external providers (e.g., through contracts, interagency agreements,
[lines of
business](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Lines_of_Business)
arrangements, licensing agreements, and/or [supply
chain](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Supply_Chain)
exchanges). Regardless of whether the
[subsystem](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Subsystem) is or
is not controlled by the organization, the expectations of its
capabilities have to be considered. The dynamic inclusion or exclusion
of the subsystems may or may not require reassessment of the information
system as a whole. This is determined based on constraints and
assumptions (e.g., functions the subsystems perform, connections to
other subsystems and other information systems) imposed upon the
subsystems at system design and incorporated in the [security
plan](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Security_Plan). So long
as the subsystems conform to the identified constraints and assumptions,
they can be dynamically added or removed from the information system
without requiring reassessments of the system.

As noted above, the assumptions and constraints on the dynamic
subsystems are reflected in the information system design and the
[security
plan](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Security_Plan). The
determination as to whether the subsystems conform to the assumptions
and constraints is addressed during the continuous monitoring phase of
the [risk
management](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Risk_Management)
process. Depending upon the nature of the subsystems (including the
functions, connections, and relative trust relationships established
with the
[subsystem](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Subsystem)
providers), the determination of conformance may be performed in a
manual or automated manner, and may occur prior to, or during the
[subsystem](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Subsystem)
connecting/disconnecting to the information system.

## 2.4 SECURITY CONTROL ALLOCATION

There are three types of [security
controls](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Security_Controls)
for information systems that can be employed by an organization: (i)
*system-specific controls* (i.e., controls that provide a security
capability for a particular information system only); (ii) *common
controls* (i.e., controls that provide a security capability for
multiple information systems); or (iii) *hybrid controls* (i.e.,
controls that have both system-specific and common
characteristics).\[19\] As illustrated in Figure 2-4, [security
controls](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Security_Controls)
are allocated to organizational information systems as system-specific,
hybrid, or common controls. The allocation of [security
controls](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Security_Controls)
is consistent with the organization's [enterprise
architecture](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Enterprise_Architecture)
and information security
[architecture](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Architecture).
As part of the information security
[architecture](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Architecture),
organizations are encouraged to identify and implement [security
controls](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Security_Controls)
that can support multiple information systems efficiently and
effectively as a common capability (i.e., common controls). When these
controls are used to support a specific information system, they are
referenced by that specific system as *inherited controls*. Common
controls promote more cost-effective and consistent information security
across the organization and can also simplify [risk
management](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Risk_Management)
activities. By allocating [security
controls](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Security_Controls)
to an information system as system-specific controls (e.g., [access
controls](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Access_Controls),
[identification and
authentication](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Identification_and_Authentication)
controls, system communications and protection controls, audit
controls), as hybrid controls (e.g., [contingency
planning](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Contingency_Planning)
controls), or as common controls that are inherited (e.g., physical and
environmental protection controls, awareness and training controls,
[personnel
security](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Personnel_Security)
controls), the organization assigns responsibility to specific
organizational entities for the development, implementation,
[assessment](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Assessment),
authorization, and monitoring of those controls.

![80037r1FPD_Figure2-4.png](80037r1FPD_Figure2-4.png
"80037r1FPD_Figure2-4.png")

## Footnotes

<references />

## Sources

  - [NIST SP 800-37 Rev. 1 DRAFT Guide for Applying the Risk Management
    Framework to Federal Information Systems: A Security Life Cycle
    Approach](http://csrc.nist.gov/publications/drafts/800-37-Rev1/SP800-37-rev1-FPD.pdf)

[Category:GIC-NISTSP80037r1FPD](Category:GIC-NISTSP80037r1FPD "wikilink")

1.  NIST [Special
    Publication 800-39](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Doc:Special_Publication_800-39),
    *Integrated Enterprise-Wide Risk Management: Organization, Mission,
    and Information System View* (projected for publication in 2010),
    will provide guidance on the holistic approach to [risk
    management](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Risk_Management).
2.  Other types of risk include, for example: (i) acquisition risk
    (cost, schedule, performance); (ii) compliance and regulatory risk;
    (iii) financial risk;
    ([iv](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=AnA:IV)) legal risk; (v)
    operational (mission/business) risk; (vi) political risk; (vii)
    program/project risk; (viii) reputational risk; (ix) safety risk;
    (x) strategic planning risk; and (xi) [supply
    chain](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Supply_Chain)
    risk.
3.  Federal [Enterprise
    Architecture](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Enterprise_Architecture)
    [Reference](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Reference)
    Models and Segment and Solution
    [Architectures](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Architectures)
    are defined in the OMB [Federal Enterprise
    Architecture](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Federal_Enterprise_Architecture)
    ([FEA](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=AnA:FEA)) Program,
    [FEA](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=AnA:FEA) Consolidated
    [Reference](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Reference)
    Model Document, Version 2.3, October 2003 and OMB Federal [Segment
    Architecture](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Segment_Architecture)
    Methodology (FSAM), January 2009, respectively.
4.  The allocation of [security
    controls](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Security_Controls)
    can take place at all three tiers in the [risk
    management](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Risk_Management)
    hierarchy. For example, [security
    controls](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Security_Controls)
    that are identified as common controls may be allocated at the
    organization, mission/business process, or information [system
    level](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:System_Level). See
    Section 2.4 for additional information on security control
    allocation.
5.  Appendix I provides additional guidance regarding external service
    providers and the provision of [security
    controls](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Security_Controls)
    in external environments.
6.  FIPS 199 provides [security
    categorization](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Security_Categorization)
    guidance for nonnational security systems. [CNSS
    Instruction 1253](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Doc:CNSS_Instruction_1253)
    provides similar guidance for [national security
    systems](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:National_Security_Systems).
7.  NIST [Special
    Publication 800-53](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Doc:Special_Publication_800-53)
    provides security control selection guidance for nonnational
    security systems. [CNSS
    Instruction 1253](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Doc:CNSS_Instruction_1253)
    provides similar guidance for [national security
    systems](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:National_Security_Systems).
8.  There are typically five phases in a generic [system development
    life
    cycle](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:System_Development_Life_Cycle)
    including: (i) system initiation; (ii) system
    development/acquisition; (iii) system implementation;
    ([iv](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=AnA:IV)) system
    operations/maintenance; and (v) system
    [disposition](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Disposition).
9.  Organizations may employ a variety of [system development life
    cycle](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:System_Development_Life_Cycle)
    processes including, for example, waterfall, spiral, or agile
    development.
10. Resource requirements include funding for training organizational
    personnel to ensure that they can effectively carry out their
    assigned responsibilities.
11. Integrated project teams are multidisciplinary entities consisting
    of individuals with appropriate skills and expertise to help
    facilitate the development of information systems that meet the
    requirements of the organization.
12. Information resources consist of information and related resources
    including personnel, equipment, funds, and information technology.
13. For information systems, direct [management
    control](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Management_Control)
    involves budgetary, programmatic, or operational authority and
    associated *responsibility* and *accountability*.
14. A [subsystem](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Subsystem)
    is a major subdivision or component of an information system
    consisting of information, information technology, and personnel
    that perform one or more specific functions.
15. Similarity of operating environments includes, for example,
    consideration of threat, policy, and management.
16. The [roles and
    responsibilities](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Roles_and_Responsibilities)
    of the [Risk Executive
    (Function)](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Risk_Executive_\(Function\))
    are described in Appendix D.
17. Tightly coupled
    [subsystem](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Subsystem)
    components may introduce inadvertent weak links in a complex
    information system (system of systems). For example, if a large
    organizational
    [intranet](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Intranet) is
    decomposed by [enterprise
    services](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Enterprise_Services)
    into smaller subsystems (e.g., severable components such as [local
    area
    network](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Local_Area_Network)
    segments) and subsequently categorized individually, the specific
    protections at the
    [subsystem](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Subsystem)
    level may allow a vector of attack against the
    [intranet](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Intranet) by
    requiring [security
    controls](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Security_Controls)
    commensurate with a lower impact level, than the rest of the system.
    To avoid this situation, organizations are encouraged to carefully
    examine the interfaces among
    [subsystem](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Subsystem)
    components and to take appropriate actions to eliminate potential
    vulnerabilities in this area, thus helping to ensure that the
    information system is adequately
    [protected](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Protected).
18. A
    [net-centric](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Net-Centric)
    [architecture](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Architecture)
    is a complex system of systems comprised of subsystems and services
    that are part of a continuously-evolving, complex community of
    people, devices, information and services interconnected by a
    network that enhances [information
    sharing](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Information_Sharing)
    and collaboration.
19. NIST [Special
    Publication 800-53](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Doc:Special_Publication_800-53)
    provides additional guidance on [security
    controls](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Security_Controls)
    for organizational information systems.