|             |
| ----------- |
| __TOC__ |

<big>APPENDIX G</big>

<big>**CONTINUOUS MONITORING**</big>

MANAGING AND TRACKING THE SECURITY STATE OF INFORMATION SYSTEMS

A critical aspect of managing risk from information systems involves the
continuous monitoring of the [security
controls](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Security_Controls)
employed within or inherited by the system.\[1\] Conducting a thorough
point-in-time
[assessment](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Assessment) of
the deployed [security
controls](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Security_Controls)
is a necessary but not sufficient
[condition](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Condition) to
demonstrate security due diligence. An effective organizational
information [security
program](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Security_Program)
also includes a rigorous continuous monitoring program integrated into
the [system development life
cycle](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:System_Development_Life_Cycle).
The objective of the continuous monitoring program is to determine if
the set of deployed [security
controls](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Security_Controls)
continue to be effective over time in light of the inevitable changes
that occur. Continuous monitoring is a proven technique to address the
security impacts on an information system resulting from changes to the
hardware, software,
[firmware](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Firmware), or
[operational
environment](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Operational_Environment).
A well-designed and well-managed continuous monitoring program can
effectively transform an otherwise static [security control
assessment](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Security_Control_Assessment)
and risk determination process into a dynamic process that provides
essential, near
[real-time](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Real-Time)
security status-related information to organizational officials in order
to take appropriate [risk
mitigation](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Risk_Mitigation)
actions and make credible, risk-based decisions regarding the operation
of the information system. Continuous monitoring programs provide
organizations with an effective mechanism to update security plans,
[security
assessment](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Security_Assessment)
reports, and [plans of action and
milestones](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Plans_of_Action_and_Milestones).

## G.1 MONITORING STRATEGY

Organizations develop a strategy and implement a program for the
continuous monitoring of security control effectiveness including the
potential need to change or supplement the control set, taking into
account any proposed/actual changes to the information system or its
environment of operation. The monitoring program is integrated into the
organization's [system development life
cycle](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:System_Development_Life_Cycle)
processes. A robust continuous monitoring program requires the active
involvement of information system owners and [common
control](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Common_Control)
providers, chief information officers, senior information security
officers, and authorizing officials. The monitoring program allows an
organization to: (i) track the security state of an information system
on a continuous basis; and (ii) maintain the [security
authorization](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Security_Authorization)
for the system over time in highly dynamic environments of operation
with changing threats, vulnerabilities, technologies, and
missions/business processes. Continuous monitoring of [security
controls](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Security_Controls)
using automated support tools facilitates near
[real-time](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Real-Time) [risk
management](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Risk_Management)
and represents a significant change in the way [security
authorization](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Security_Authorization)
activities have been employed in the past.\[2\]

An effective organization-wide continuous monitoring program includes:

  - [Configuration
    management](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Configuration_Management)
    and control processes for organizational information systems;
  - Security impact analyses on actual or proposed changes to
    organizational information systems and environments of
    operation;\[3\]
  - [Assessment](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Assessment)
    of selected [security
    controls](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Security_Controls)
    (including system-specific, hybrid, and common controls) based on
    the organization-defined continuous monitoring strategy;\[4\]
  - Security status
    [reporting](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Reporting) to
    appropriate organizational officials;\[5\] and
  - Active involvement by authorizing officials in the ongoing
    management of [information system-related security
    risks](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Information_System-related_Security_Risks).

With regard to [configuration
management](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Configuration_Management)
and control, it is important to document the proposed or actual changes
to the information system and its environment of operation and to
subsequently determine the impact of those proposed or actual changes on
the overall security state of the system. Information systems and the
environments in which those systems operate are typically in a constant
state of change (e.g., upgrading hardware, software, or
[firmware](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Firmware);
redefining the missions and business processes of the organization;
discovering new threats). Documenting information system changes as part
of routine [SDLC](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=AnA:SDLC)
processes and assessing the [potential
impact](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Potential_Impact)
those changes may have on the security state of the system is an
essential aspect of continuous monitoring, maintaining the current
authorization, and supporting a decision for reauthorization when
appropriate.

## G.2 SELECTION OF [SECURITY CONTROLS](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Security_Controls) FOR MONITORING

The criteria for selecting which [security
controls](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Security_Controls)
to monitor and for determining the frequency of such monitoring are
established by the [information system
owner](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Information_System_Owner)
or [common control
provider](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Common_Control_Provider)
in collaboration with the [authorizing
official](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Authorizing_Official)
or designated representative, [chief information
officer](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Chief_Information_Officer),
[senior information security
officer](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Senior_Information_Security_Officer),
and [risk executive
(function)](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Risk_Executive_\(Function\)).
The selection criteria reflect the organization's priorities and
importance of the information system (or in the case of common controls,
the information systems inheriting the controls) to organizational
operations and assets, individuals, other organizations, and the Nation
in accordance with
[FIPS 199](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Doc:FIPS_199) or [CNSS
Instruction 1253](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Doc:CNSS_Instruction_1253).
Organizations may use recent risk assessments (including current threat
and vulnerability information), history of cyber attacks, results of
previous security assessments, and operational requirements in guiding
the selection of [security
controls](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Security_Controls)
to be monitored and the frequency of the monitoring process.

Priority for security control monitoring is given to the controls that
have the greatest volatility and the controls that have been identified
in the organization's [plan of action and
milestones](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Plan_of_Action_and_Milestones).
Security control volatility is a measure of how frequently a control is
likely to change over time subsequent to its implementation. For
example, security policies and procedures in a particular organization
may not be likely to change from one year to the next and thus would
likely be [security
controls](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Security_Controls)
with lower volatility. [Access
controls](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Access_Controls) or
other (technical) [security
controls](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Security_Controls)
that are subject to the direct effects or side effects of frequent
changes in hardware, software, and/or
[firmware](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Firmware)
components of an information system would, therefore, likely be controls
with higher volatility. [Security
controls](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Security_Controls)
identified in the [plan of action and
milestones](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Plan_of_Action_and_Milestones)
are also a priority in the continuous monitoring process, due to the
fact that these controls have been deemed to be ineffective to some
degree. Organizations also consider specific threat information
including known attack vectors (i.e., specific vulnerabilities exploited
by threat sources) when selecting the set of [security
controls](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Security_Controls)
to monitor and the frequency of such monitoring. The [authorizing
official](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Authorizing_Official)
and the [senior information security
officer](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Senior_Information_Security_Officer)
approve the set of [security
controls](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Security_Controls)
that are to be monitored on an ongoing basis as well as the frequency of
the monitoring activities.

## G.3 CRITICAL DOCUMENT UPDATES AND STATUS [REPORTING](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Reporting)

Continuous monitoring results are considered with respect to any
necessary updates to the [security
plan](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Security_Plan),
[security assessment
report](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:security_assessment_report),
and [plan of action and
milestones](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Plan_of_Action_and_Milestones),
since these documents are used to guide future [risk
management](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Risk_Management)
activities. Updated security plans reflect any modifications to
[security
controls](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Security_Controls)
based on the [risk
mitigation](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Risk_Mitigation)
activities carried out by information system owners or [common
control](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Common_Control)
providers. Updated [security
assessment](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Security_Assessment)
reports reflect additional
[assessment](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Assessment)
activities conducted by assessors to determine security control
effectiveness based on modifications to the [security
plan](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Security_Plan) and
deployed controls. Updated plans of action and milestones: (i) report
progress made on the current outstanding items listed in the plan; (ii)
address vulnerabilities discovered during the [security impact
analysis](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Security_Impact_Analysis)
or security control monitoring; and (iii) describe how the [information
system
owner](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Information_System_Owner)
or [common control
provider](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Common_Control_Provider)
intends to address those vulnerabilities. The results of monitoring
activities are reported to authorizing officials on an ongoing basis in
the form of status reports. Other key organizational officials (e.g.,
risk executive \[function\], [senior information security
officer](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Senior_Information_Security_Officer))
receive the results of continuous monitoring activities as needed or as
requested. With the use of automated support tools and effective
organization-wide [security
program](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Security_Program)
management practices, authorizing officials have the capability to
access the most recent documentation in the authorization package at any
time to determine the current security state of the information system,
to help manage risk, and to provide essential information for potential
reauthorization decisions. The monitoring of [security
controls](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Security_Controls)
and changes to the information system and its environment of operation,
continues throughout the [system development life
cycle](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:System_Development_Life_Cycle).
Summaries of monitoring results are provided to the [senior information
security
officer](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Senior_Information_Security_Officer)
and the [risk executive
(function)](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Risk_Executive_\(Function\)).

## Footnotes

<references />

## Sources

  - [NIST SP 800-37 Rev. 1 DRAFT Guide for Applying the Risk Management
    Framework to Federal Information Systems: A Security Life Cycle
    Approach](http://csrc.nist.gov/publications/drafts/800-37-Rev1/SP800-37-rev1-FPD.pdf)

[Category:GIC-NISTSP80037r1FPD](Category:GIC-NISTSP80037r1FPD "wikilink")

1.  A continuous monitoring program within an organization involves a
    different set of activities than Security Incident Monitoring or
    Security Event Monitoring programs.
2.  Near
    [real-time](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Real-Time)
    [risk
    management](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Risk_Management)
    of information systems can be facilitated by employing automated
    support tools to execute various steps in the
    [RMF](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=AnA:RMF) including
    authorization-related activities. In addition to [vulnerability
    scanning](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Vulnerability_Scanning)
    tools, system and network monitoring tools, and other automated
    support tools that can help to determine the security state of an
    information system, organizations can employ automated security
    management and
    [reporting](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Reporting)
    tools to update critical documents in the authorization package
    including the [security
    plan](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Security_Plan),
    [security assessment
    report](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:security_assessment_report),
    and [plan of action and
    milestones](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Plan_of_Action_and_Milestones).
    The documents in the authorization package are considered "living
    documents” and updated accordingly based on actual events that may
    affect the security of the information system. Transitioning to a
    near
    [real-time](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Real-Time)
    [risk
    management](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Risk_Management)
    environment will require the increased use of automated support
    tools over time as organizations integrate these technologies into
    their information security programs in accordance with available
    resources.
3.  Although the primary focus of continuous monitoring activities is on
    the effectiveness of [security
    controls](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Security_Controls)
    employed within and inherited by an information system, there are
    other equally important external factors in the environment of
    operation for a system that also require monitoring on an ongoing
    basis. These factors include, for example, changes in the
    organization's missions or business processes, changes in the threat
    space, and changes in tolerance for previously accepted risks).
4.  Through the use of automation, it is possible to monitor a greater
    number of [security
    controls](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Security_Controls)
    on an ongoing basis than is feasible using manual processes. As a
    result, organizations may choose to monitor a greater number of
    [security
    controls](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Security_Controls)
    with increased frequency.
5.  Organizations have significant latitude and flexibility in the
    breadth, depth, and formality of security status reports. At a
    minimum, security status reports describe or summarize key changes
    to security plans, [security
    assessment](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Security_Assessment)
    reports, and [plans of action and
    milestones](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Plans_of_Action_and_Milestones).
    At the discretion of the organization, security status reports on
    information systems can be used to help satisfy the FISMA
    [reporting](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Reporting)
    requirement for documenting remedial actions on any security-related
    weaknesses or deficiencies.