|             |
| ----------- |
| __TOC__ |

<big>APPENDIX D</big>

<big>**ROLES AND RESPONSIBILITIES**</big>

KEY PARTICIPANTS IN THE [RISK
MANAGEMENT](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Risk_Management)
PROCESS

The following sections describe the [roles and
responsibilities](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Roles_and_Responsibilities)
of key participants involved in an organization's [risk
management](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Risk_Management)
process.\[1\] Recognizing that organizations have widely varying
missions and organizational structures, there may be differences in
[naming
conventions](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Naming_Conventions)
for [risk
management](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Risk_Management)-related
roles and how specific responsibilities are allocated among
organizational personnel (e.g., multiple individuals filling a single
role or one individual filling multiple roles).\[2\] However, the basic
functions remain the same. The application of the [Risk
Management](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Risk_Management)
Framework described in this publication is flexible, allowing
organizations to effectively accomplish the intent of the specific tasks
within their respective organizational structures to best manage
[information system-related security
risks](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Information_System-related_Security_Risks).
Many [risk
management](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Risk_Management)
roles defined in this publication have counterpart roles defined in the
routine [system development life
cycle](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:System_Development_Life_Cycle)
processes carried out by organizations. Whenever possible, organizations
align the [risk
management](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Risk_Management)
roles with similar (or complementary) roles defined for the [system
development life
cycle](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:System_Development_Life_Cycle).\[3\]
[Risk
Management](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Risk_Management)
Framework tasks are executed concurrently with ongoing [system
development life
cycle](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:System_Development_Life_Cycle)
processes, thereby effectively integrating the process of managing
[information system-related security
risks](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Information_System-related_Security_Risks)
with ongoing [life
cycle](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Life_Cycle) processes.

## D.1 HEAD OF AGENCY (CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER)

The head of agency (or chief executive officer) is the highest-level
[senior
official](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Senior_Official) or
executive within an organization with the overall responsibility to
provide information [security
protections](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Security_Protections)
commensurate with the risk and magnitude of harm (i.e., impact) to
organizational operations and assets, individuals, other organizations,
and the Nation resulting from [unauthorized
access](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Unauthorized_Access),
use,
[disclosure](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Disclosure),
[disruption](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Disruption),
modification, or
[destruction](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Destruction)
of: (i) information collected or maintained by or on behalf of the
agency; and (ii) information systems used or operated by an agency or by
a [contractor](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Contractor) of
an agency or other organization on behalf of an agency. Agency heads are
also responsible for ensuring that: (i) information security management
processes are integrated with strategic and operational planning
processes; (ii) senior officials within the organization provide
information security for the information and information systems that
support the operations and assets under their control; and (iii) the
organization has trained personnel sufficient to assist in complying
with the information [security
requirements](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Security_Requirements)
in related legislation, policies, directives, instructions, standards,
and guidelines. Through the development and implementation of strong
policies, the head of agency establishes the organizational commitment
to information security and the actions required to effectively manage
risk and protect the core missions and business functions being carried
out by the organization. Senior leadership commitment to information
security establishes a level of due diligence within the organization
that promotes a climate for mission and business success.

## D.2 [RISK EXECUTIVE (FUNCTION)](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Risk_Executive_\(Function\))

The [risk executive
(function)](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Risk_Executive_\(Function\))
is an individual or group within an organization that helps to ensure
that: (i) risk-related considerations for individual information
systems, to include authorization decisions for those systems, are
viewed from an organization-wide perspective with regard to the overall
strategic goals and objectives of the organization in carrying out its
core missions and business functions; and (ii) managing risk from
individual information systems is consistent across the organization,
reflects organizational [risk
tolerance](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Risk_Tolerance),
and is considered along with other types of risks in order to ensure
mission/business success. The [risk executive
(function)](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Risk_Executive_\(Function\))
coordinates with the senior leadership of an organization to:

  - Provide a comprehensive, organization-wide, holistic approach for
    addressing riskâ€”an approach that provides a greater understanding of
    the integrated operations of the organization;
  - Develop a [risk
    management](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Risk_Management)
    strategy for the organization providing a strategic view of
    information security-related risks with regard to the organization
    as a whole;\[4\]
  - Facilitate the sharing of risk-related information among authorizing
    officials and other senior leaders within the organization;
  - Provide oversight for all [risk
    management](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Risk_Management)-related
    activities across the organization (e.g., security categorizations)
    to help ensure consistent and effective risk
    [acceptance](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Acceptance)
    decisions;
  - Ensure that authorization decisions consider all factors necessary
    for mission and business success;
  - Provide an organization-wide forum to consider all sources of risk
    (including [aggregated
    risk](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Aggregated_Risk)
    from individual information systems) to organizational operations
    and assets, individuals, other organizations, and the Nation;
  - Promote cooperation and collaboration among authorizing officials to
    include authorization actions requiring shared responsibility;
  - Identify the overall organizational risk posture based on the
    [aggregated
    risk](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Aggregated_Risk)
    from each of the information systems for which the organization is
    responsible; and
  - Ensure that the shared responsibility for supporting organizational
    mission/business functions using external providers of information
    and services receives the needed visibility and is elevated to the
    appropriate decision-making authorities.

The [risk executive
(function)](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Risk_Executive_\(Function\))
presumes neither a specific organizational structure nor formal
responsibility assigned to any one individual or group within the
organization. The head of the agency/organization may choose to retain
the [risk executive
(function)](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Risk_Executive_\(Function\))
or to delegate the function to another official or group (e.g., an
executive leadership
[council](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=AnA:Council)). The [risk
executive
(function)](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Risk_Executive_\(Function\))
has inherent U.S. Government authority and is assigned to government
personnel only.

## D.3 [CHIEF INFORMATION OFFICER](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Chief_Information_Officer)

The chief information officer\[5\] is an organizational official
responsible for: (i) designating a [senior information security
officer](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Senior_Information_Security_Officer);
(ii) developing and maintaining information security policies,
procedures, and [control
techniques](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Control_Techniques)
to address all applicable requirements; (iii) overseeing personnel with
significant responsibilities for information security and ensuring that
the personnel are adequately trained;
([iv](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=AnA:IV)) assisting senior
organizational officials concerning their security responsibilities; and
(v) in
[coordination](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Coordination)
with other senior officials,
[reporting](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Reporting)
annually to the head of the [federal
agency](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Federal_Agency) on
the overall effectiveness of the organization's information [security
program](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Security_Program),
including progress of remedial actions. The [chief information
officer](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Chief_Information_Officer),
with the support of the [risk executive
(function)](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Risk_Executive_\(Function\))
and the [senior information security
officer](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Senior_Information_Security_Officer),
works closely with authorizing officials and their designated
representatives to help ensure that:

  - An organization-wide information [security
    program](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Security_Program)
    is effectively implemented resulting in [adequate
    security](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Adequate_Security)
    for all organizational information systems and environments of
    operation for those systems;
  - Information security considerations are integrated into
    programming/planning/budgeting cycles, enterprise
    [architectures](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Architectures),
    and acquisition/system development life cycles;
  - Information systems are covered by approved security plans and are
    authorized to operate;
  - Information security-related activities required across the
    organization are accomplished in an efficient, cost-effective, and
    timely manner; and
  - There is centralized
    [reporting](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Reporting) of
    appropriate information security-related activities.

The [chief information
officer](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Chief_Information_Officer)
and authorizing officials also determine, based on organizational
priorities, the appropriate allocation of resources dedicated to the
protection of the information systems supporting the organization's
missions and business functions. For selected information systems, the
[chief information
officer](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Chief_Information_Officer)
may be designated as an [authorizing
official](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Authorizing_Official)
or a co-authorizing official with other senior organizational officials.
The role of [chief information
officer](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Chief_Information_Officer)
has inherent U.S. Government authority and is assigned to government
personnel only.

## D.4 INFORMATION OWNER/STEWARD

The information owner/steward is an organizational official with
statutory, management, or operational authority for specified
information and the responsibility for establishing the policies and
procedures governing its generation, collection,
[processing](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Processing),
[dissemination](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Dissemination),
and
[disposal](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Disposal).\[6\] In
information-sharing environments, the information owner/steward is
responsible for establishing the rules for appropriate use and
protection of the subject information (e.g., [rules of
behavior](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Rules_of_Behavior))
and retains that responsibility even when the information is shared with
or provided to other organizations. The owner/steward of the information
processed, stored, or transmitted by an information system may or may
not be the same as the system owner. A single information system may
contain information from multiple information owners/stewards.
Information owners/stewards provide input to information system owners
regarding the [security
requirements](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Security_Requirements)
and [security
controls](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Security_Controls)
for the systems where the information is processed, stored, or
transmitted.

## D.5 [SENIOR INFORMATION SECURITY OFFICER](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Senior_Information_Security_Officer)

The [senior information security
officer](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Senior_Information_Security_Officer)
is an organizational official responsible for: (i) carrying out the
[chief information
officer](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Chief_Information_Officer)
security responsibilities under FISMA; and (ii) serving as the primary
liaison for the [chief information
officer](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Chief_Information_Officer)
to the organization's authorizing officials, information system owners,
[common
control](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Common_Control)
providers, and information system security officers. The senior
information security officer: (i) possesses professional qualifications,
including training and experience, required to administer the
information [security
program](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Security_Program)
functions; (ii) maintains information security duties as a primary
responsibility; and (iii) heads an office with the mission and resources
to assist the organization in achieving more secure information and
information systems in accordance with the requirements in FISMA. The
[senior information security
officer](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Senior_Information_Security_Officer)
(or supporting staff members) may also serve as [authorizing
official](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Authorizing_Official)
designated representatives or security control assessors. The role of
[senior information security
officer](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Senior_Information_Security_Officer)
has inherent U.S. Government authority and is assigned to government
personnel only.

## D.6 [AUTHORIZING OFFICIAL](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Authorizing_Official)

The [authorizing
official](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Authorizing_Official)
is a [senior
official](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Senior_Official) or
executive with the authority to formally assume responsibility for
operating an information system at an [acceptable level of
risk](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Acceptable_Level_of_Risk)
to organizational operations and assets, individuals, other
organizations, and the Nation. Authorizing officials typically have
budgetary oversight for an information system or are responsible for the
mission and/or business operations supported by the system. Through the
[security
authorization](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Security_Authorization)
process, authorizing officials are accountable for the security risks
associated with information system operations. Accordingly, authorizing
officials are in management positions with a level of authority
commensurate with understanding and accepting such [information
system-related security
risks](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Information_System-related_Security_Risks).
Authorizing officials also approve security plans, memorandums of
agreement or understanding, and [plans of action and
milestones](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Plans_of_Action_and_Milestones)
and determine whether significant changes in the information systems or
environments of operation require reauthorization. Authorizing officials
can deny [authorization to
operate](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Authorization_to_Operate)
an information system or if the system is operational, halt operations,
if unacceptable risks exist. Authorizing officials coordinate their
activities with the [risk executive
(function)](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Risk_Executive_\(Function\)),
[chief information
officer](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Chief_Information_Officer),
[senior information security
officer](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Senior_Information_Security_Officer),
[common
control](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Common_Control)
providers, information system owners, information system security
officers, security control assessors, and other interested parties
during the [security
authorization](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Security_Authorization)
process. With the increasing complexity of missions/business processes,
partnership arrangements, and the use of external/shared services, it is
possible that a particular information system may involve multiple
authorizing officials. If so, agreements are established among the
authorizing officials and documented in the [security
plan](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Security_Plan).
Authorizing officials are responsible for ensuring that all activities
and functions associated with [security
authorization](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Security_Authorization)
that are delegated to [authorizing
official](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Authorizing_Official)
designated representatives are carried out. The role of [authorizing
official](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Authorizing_Official)
has inherent U.S. Government authority and is assigned to government
personnel only.

## D.7 [AUTHORIZING OFFICIAL DESIGNATED REPRESENTATIVE](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Authorizing_Official_Designated_Representative)

The [authorizing official designated
representative](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Authorizing_Official_Designated_Representative)
is an organizational official that acts on behalf of an [authorizing
official](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Authorizing_Official)
to coordinate and conduct the required day-to-day activities associated
with the [security
authorization](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Security_Authorization)
process. [Authorizing
official](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Authorizing_Official)
designated representatives can be empowered by authorizing officials to
make certain decisions with regard to the planning and resourcing of the
[security
authorization](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Security_Authorization)
process,
[acceptance](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Acceptance) of
the [security
plan](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Security_Plan),
approval and monitoring the implementation of [plans of action and
milestones](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Plans_of_Action_and_Milestones),
and the
[assessment](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Assessment)
and/or determination of risk. The designated representative may also be
called upon to prepare the final authorization package, obtain the
authorizing official's signature on the authorization decision document,
and transmit the authorization package to appropriate organizational
officials. The only
[activity](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Activity) that
cannot be delegated to the designated representative by the [authorizing
official](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Authorizing_Official)
is the authorization decision and signing of the associated
authorization decision document (i.e., the
[acceptance](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Acceptance) of
risk to organizational operations and assets, individuals, other
organizations, and the Nation).

## D.8 [COMMON CONTROL PROVIDER](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Common_Control_Provider)

The [common control
provider](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Common_Control_Provider)
is an individual, group, or organization responsible for the
development, implementation,
[assessment](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Assessment), and
monitoring of common controls (i.e., [security
controls](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Security_Controls)
inherited by information systems).\[7\] [Common
control](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Common_Control)
providers are responsible for: (i) documenting the
organization-identified common controls in a [security
plan](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Security_Plan) (or
equivalent document prescribed by the organization); (ii) ensuring that
required assessments of common controls are carried out by qualified
assessors with an appropriate level of independence defined by the
organization; (iii) documenting [assessment
findings](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Assessment_Findings)
in a [security assessment
report](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:security_assessment_report);
and ([iv](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=AnA:IV)) producing a
[plan of action and
milestones](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Plan_of_Action_and_Milestones)
for all controls having weaknesses or deficiencies. Security plans,
[security
assessment](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Security_Assessment)
reports, and [plans of action and
milestones](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Plans_of_Action_and_Milestones)
for common controls (or a summary of such information) is made available
to information system owners inheriting those controls after the
information is reviewed and approved by the [senior
official](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Senior_Official) or
executive with oversight responsibility for those controls.

## D.9 [INFORMATION SYSTEM OWNER](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Information_System_Owner)

The [information system
owner](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Information_System_Owner)
is an organizational official responsible for the
[procurement](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Procurement),
development, integration, modification, operation,
[maintenance](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Maintenance),
and [disposal](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Disposal) of
an information system.\[8\] The [information system
owner](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Information_System_Owner)
is responsible for addressing the operational interests of the user
community (i.e., users who require access to the information system to
satisfy mission, business, or operational requirements) and for ensuring
compliance with information [security
requirements](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Security_Requirements).
In
[coordination](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Coordination)
with the [information system security
officer](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Information_System_Security_Officer),
the [information system
owner](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Information_System_Owner)
is responsible for the development and
[maintenance](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Maintenance) of
the [security
plan](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Security_Plan) and
ensures that the system is deployed and operated in accordance with the
agreed-upon [security
controls](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Security_Controls).
In
[coordination](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Coordination)
with the information owner/steward, the [information system
owner](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Information_System_Owner)
is also responsible for deciding who has access to the system (and with
what types of privileges or [access
rights](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Access_Rights))\[9\]
and ensures that system users and support personnel receive the
requisite security training (e.g., instruction in [rules of
behavior](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Rules_of_Behavior)).
Based on guidance from the [authorizing
official](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Authorizing_Official),
the [information system
owner](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Information_System_Owner)
informs appropriate organizational officials of the need to conduct the
[security
authorization](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Security_Authorization),
ensures that the necessary resources are available for the effort, and
provides the required information system access, information, and
documentation to the [security control
assessor](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Security_Control_Assessor).
The [information system
owner](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Information_System_Owner)
receives the [security
assessment](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Security_Assessment)
results from the [security control
assessor](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Security_Control_Assessor).
After taking appropriate steps to reduce or eliminate vulnerabilities,
the [information system
owner](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Information_System_Owner)
assembles the authorization package and submits the package to the
[authorizing
official](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Authorizing_Official)
or the [authorizing official designated
representative](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Authorizing_Official_Designated_Representative)
for
[adjudication](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Adjudication).\[10\]

## D.10 INFORMATION SYSTEM SECURITY MANAGER/OFFICER

The [information system security
officer](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Information_System_Security_Officer)
is an individual responsible for ensuring that the appropriate
operational security posture is maintained for an information system and
as such, works in close collaboration with the [information system
owner](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Information_System_Owner).
The [information system security
officer](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Information_System_Security_Officer)
also serves as a principal advisor on all matters, technical and
otherwise, involving the security of an information system. The
[information system security
officer](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Information_System_Security_Officer)
has the detailed knowledge and expertise required to manage the security
aspects of an information system and, in many organizations, is assigned
responsibility for the day-to-day security operations of a system. This
responsibility may also include, but is not limited to, physical and
environmental protection, [personnel
security](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Personnel_Security),
[incident
handling](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Incident_Handling),
and security training and awareness. The [information system security
officer](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Information_System_Security_Officer)
may be called upon to assist in the development of the security policies
and procedures and to ensure compliance with those policies and
procedures. In close
[coordination](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Coordination)
with the [information system
owner](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Information_System_Owner),
the [information system security
officer](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Information_System_Security_Officer)
often plays an active role in the monitoring of a system and its
environment of operation to include developing and updating the
[security
plan](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Security_Plan),
managing and controlling changes to the system, and assessing the
security impact of those changes. Organizations may choose to employ an
information system security manager role that has oversight
responsibilities for an information [security
program](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Security_Program).
In these situations, information system security officers may report
directly to the information system security managers.

## D.11 INFORMATION SECURITY ARCHITECT

The information security architect is an individual, group, or
organization responsible for ensuring that the information [security
requirements](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Security_Requirements)
necessary to protect the organization's core missions and business
processes are adequately addressed in all aspects of [enterprise
architecture](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Enterprise_Architecture)
including
[reference](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Reference)
models, segment and solution
[architectures](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Architectures),
and the resulting information systems supporting those missions and
business processes. The information security architect serves as the
liaison between the enterprise architect and the [information system
security
engineer](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Information_System_Security_Engineer)
and also coordinates with information system owners, [common
control](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Common_Control)
providers, and information system security officers on the allocation of
[security
controls](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Security_Controls)
as system-specific, hybrid, or common controls. In addition, information
security architects, in close
[coordination](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Coordination)
with information system security officers, advise authorizing officials,
chief information officers, senior information security officers, and
the [risk executive
(function)](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Risk_Executive_\(Function\)),
on a range of security-related issues including, for example,
establishing [information system
boundaries](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Information_System_Boundaries),
assessing the severity of weaknesses and deficiencies in the information
system, [plans of action and
milestones](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Plans_of_Action_and_Milestones),
[risk
mitigation](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Risk_Mitigation)
approaches, security alerts, and potential adverse effects of identified
vulnerabilities.

## D.12 [INFORMATION SYSTEM SECURITY ENGINEER](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Information_System_Security_Engineer)

The [information system security
engineer](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Information_System_Security_Engineer)
is an individual, group, or organization responsible for conducting
[information system security
engineering](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Information_System_Security_Engineering)
activities. [Information system security
engineering](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Information_System_Security_Engineering)
is a process that captures and refines information [security
requirements](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Security_Requirements)
and ensures that the requirements are effectively integrated into
information technology component products and information systems
through purposeful security architecting, design, development, and
configuration. Information system security engineers are an integral
part of the development team (e.g., integrated project team) designing
and developing organizational information systems or upgrading [legacy
systems](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Legacy_Systems).
Information system security engineers employ best practices when
implementing [security
controls](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Security_Controls)
within an information system including software engineering
methodologies, system/security engineering principles, and secure coding
techniques. System security engineers coordinate their security-related
activities with information security architects, senior information
security officers, information system owners, [common
control](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Common_Control)
providers, and information system security officers.

## D.13 [SECURITY CONTROL ASSESSOR](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Security_Control_Assessor)

The security control assessor\[11\] is an individual, group, or
organization responsible for conducting a comprehensive
[assessment](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Assessment) of
the management, operational, and [technical
security](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Technical_Security)
controls employed within or inherited by an information system to
determine the overall effectiveness of the controls (i.e., the extent to
which the controls are implemented correctly, operating as intended, and
producing the desired outcome with respect to meeting the [security
requirements](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Security_Requirements)
for the system). Security control assessors also provide an
[assessment](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Assessment) of
the severity of weaknesses or deficiencies discovered in the information
system and its environment of operation and recommend corrective actions
to address identified vulnerabilities. In addition to the above
responsibilities, security control assessors prepare the final [security
assessment
report](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:security_assessment_report)
containing the results and findings from the
[assessment](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Assessment).
Prior to initiating the [security control
assessment](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Security_Control_Assessment),
an [assessor](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Assessor)
conducts an
[assessment](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Assessment) of
the [security
plan](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Security_Plan) to help
ensure that the plan provides a set of [security
controls](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Security_Controls)
for the information system that meet the stated [security
requirements](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Security_Requirements).

The required level of
[assessor](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Assessor)
independence is determined by the specific conditions of the [security
control
assessment](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Security_Control_Assessment).
For example, when the
[assessment](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Assessment) is
conducted in support of an authorization decision, the [authorizing
official](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Authorizing_Official)
makes an explicit determination of the degree of independence required
in accordance with federal policies, directives, standards, and
guidelines.
[Assessor](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Assessor)
independence is an important factor in: (i) preserving the impartial and
[unbiased](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Unbiased) nature
of the
[assessment](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Assessment)
process; (ii) determining the credibility of the [security
assessment](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Security_Assessment)
results; and (iii) ensuring that the [authorizing
official](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Authorizing_Official)
receives the most objective information possible in order to make an
informed, risk-based, authorization decision. The [information system
owner](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Information_System_Owner)
and [common control
provider](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Common_Control_Provider)
rely on the security expertise and the technical judgment of the
[assessor](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Assessor) to: (i)
assess the [security
controls](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Security_Controls)
employed within and inherited by the information system using
[assessment](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Assessment)
procedures specified in the [security assessment
plan](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:security_assessment_plan);
and (ii) provide specific recommendations on how to correct weaknesses
or deficiencies in the controls and address identified vulnerabilities.

## Sources

  - [NIST SP 800-37 Rev. 1 DRAFT Guide for Applying the Risk Management
    Framework to Federal Information Systems: A Security Life Cycle
    Approach](http://csrc.nist.gov/publications/drafts/800-37-Rev1/SP800-37-rev1-FPD.pdf)

[Category:GIC-NISTSP80037r1FPD](Category:GIC-NISTSP80037r1FPD "wikilink")

1.  Organizations may define other roles (e.g.,
    [facilities](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Facilities)
    manager, human resources manager, systems administrator) to support
    the [risk
    management](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Risk_Management)
    process.
2.  Caution should be exercised when one individual fills multiples
    roles in the [risk
    management](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Risk_Management)
    process to ensure that the individual retains an appropriate level
    of independence and remains free from conflicts of interest.
3.  For example, the [system development life
    cycle](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:System_Development_Life_Cycle)
    role of [system
    developer](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:System_Developer)
    or [program
    manager](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Program_Manager)
    can be aligned with [information system
    owner](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Information_System_Owner);
    mission owner/manager can be aligned with [authorizing
    official](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Authorizing_Official);
    and system/software engineers are complementary roles to information
    system security engineers.
4.  Authorizing officials may have narrow or localized perspectives in
    rendering authorization decisions, in some cases without fully
    understanding or explicitly accepting the risks being incurred from
    such decisions. The responsibility of authorizing officials
    described in
    [FIPS 200](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Doc:FIPS_200), was
    extended in [NIST Special
    Publication 800-53](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Doc:NIST_Special_Publication_800-53)
    to include risks to other organizations and the Nation.
5.  When an organization has not designated a formal [chief information
    officer](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Chief_Information_Officer)
    position, FISMA requires the associated responsibilities to be
    handled by a comparable organizational official.
6.  Federal information is an asset of the Nation, not of a particular
    [federal
    agency](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Federal_Agency)
    or its subordinate organizations. In that spirit, many federal
    agencies are developing policies, procedures, processes, and
    training needed to end the practice of information ownership and
    implement the practice of information stewardship. Information
    stewardship is the careful and responsible management of federal
    information belonging to the Nation as a whole, regardless of the
    [entity](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Entity) or
    source that may have originated, created, or compiled the
    information. Information stewards provide maximum access to federal
    information to elements of the federal government and its customers,
    balanced by the
    [obligation](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Obligation)
    to protect the information in accordance with the provisions of
    FISMA and any associated security-related federal policies,
    directives, regulations, standards, and guidance.
7.  Organizations can have multiple [common
    control](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Common_Control)
    providers depending on how information security responsibilities are
    allocated organization-wide. [Common
    control](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Common_Control)
    providers may also be information system owners when the common
    controls are resident within an information system. Common controls
    are described in Section 2.4.
8.  The [information system
    owner](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Information_System_Owner)
    serves as the focal point for the information system. In that
    capacity, the [information system
    owner](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Information_System_Owner)
    serves both as an owner and as the central point of contact between
    the authorization process and the owners of components of the system
    including, for example: (i) applications, networking, servers, or
    workstations; (ii) owners/stewards of information processed, stored,
    or transmitted by the system; and (iii) owners of the missions and
    business functions supported by the system). Some organizations may
    refer to information system owners as program managers or
    business/asset owners.
9.  The responsibility for deciding who has access to specific
    information within an information system (and with what types of
    privileges or [access
    rights](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Access_Rights))
    may reside with the information owner/steward.
10. Depending on how the organization has organized its [security
    authorization](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Security_Authorization)
    activities, the [authorizing
    official](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Authorizing_Official)
    may choose to designate an individual other than the [information
    system
    owner](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Information_System_Owner)
    to compile and assemble the information for the [security
    authorization](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Security_Authorization)
    package. In this situation, the designated individual must
    coordinate the compilation and assembly activities with the
    [information system
    owner](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Information_System_Owner).
11. Security control assessors may be called certification agents in
    some organizations. At the discretion of the organization, security
    control assessors may be given additional duties/responsibilities
    for the post
    [processing](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Processing)
    and analysis of [security control
    assessment](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Security_Control_Assessment)
    findings and results. This may include, for example, making specific
    determinations for or recommendations to authorizing officials
    (known in some [communities of
    interest](http://fismapedia.org/index.php?title=Term:Communities_of_Interest)
    as certification recommendations or certification determinations).