**This section outlines the “musts” for chapter leaders, or stated
differently, these are the bottom line rules required of chapter
leaders. The rest of the handbook is composed of best practices and
guidance, which are only suggestions for chapter leaders.**

## Organice reuniones abiertas, libres y gratuitas

Las reuniones de los capítulos locales deben ser gratis y libres para
que atienda cualquier persona, sin importar que sea un miembro pago o
no.

## Realizar como mínimos 2 reuniones o eventos del capítulo por año

While this is the minimum number of chapter meetings which you need to
hold, 4 meetings a year is recommended to maintain an active chapter.
There are a variety of meeting “formats” or events that may be used to
fulfill this requirement including virtual meetings or even small
gatherings to discuss application security. Possibilities for meeting
formats and events are discussed more below.

## Notificar Give official meeting notice through the wiki, chapter mailing list, and OWASP Calendar

Chapter meetings must be posted to the OWASP wiki (on the chapter’s
page) and a meeting announcement must be sent out to the OWASP mailing
list (i.e. owasp-CHAPTERNAME@lists.owasp.org) to notify the OWASP
community of each upcoming meeting. Also, the meeting must be listed on
the OWASP Global Events Calendar.

## Abide by OWASP principles and the code of ethics

The OWASP [Core Purpose](About_OWASP#Core_Purpose "wikilink"),
[Values](About_OWASP#Core_Values "wikilink"),
[Principles](About_OWASP#Principles "wikilink"), and [Code of
Ethics](About_OWASP#Code_of_Ethics "wikilink") are posted on the [About
OWASP](About_OWASP "wikilink") wiki page.

## Protect the privacy of the chapter’s local contacts

The privacy of chapter members and meeting attendees should be protected
at all times. You should not disclose names, email addresses, or other
identifying information about OWASP members or meeting attendees. Only
aggregate statistics can be referenced. If a meeting sponsor is utilized
that organization might consider doing a raffle in exchange for business
cards.

## Maintain vendor neutrality (act independently)

In order to preserve OWASP’s non-profit status and open, non-commercial
principles it is important that no commercially-oriented “sales pitch”
talks are given at OWASP events, be it chapter meetings or conferences.
Such talks are not only against OWASP principles, they also blur the
line between OWASP and commercial entities, thus diluting the OWASP
brand name and agnostic status globally.

Anybody that observes chapter leaders that are not following these basic
rules are urged to report this to: <http://sl.owasp.org/contactus>.

## Spend any chapter funds in accordance with the OWASP goals, code of ethics, and principles

For more suggestions on handling chapter funds, see [section 4.7 on
Handling
Money](Chapter_Handbook/Chapter_4:_Chapter_Administration#Handling_Money "wikilink").

## Chapter Oversight

OWASP Chapters and Chapter Leaders are overseen by the Global Chapters
Committee and, ultimately, the Global OWASP Board. If the Global
Chapters Committee or Global OWASP Board determines that an OWASP
Chapter Leader has not complied with these rules, their status as an
OWASP Chapter Leader may be revoked. Additionally, OWASP administrative
access (including the leader’s owasp.org email address) may be
immediately revoked.

[Category:Chapter Handbook](Category:Chapter_Handbook "wikilink")