<small>[Click here to return to project's main
page](:OWASP_Secure_Coding_Practices_-_Quick_Reference_Guide "wikilink")</small>

## Stable Release Review of the [OWASP Secure Coding Practices - Quick Reference Guide](:OWASP_Secure_Coding_Practices_-_Quick_Reference_Guide "wikilink") - [Version 1.0](Projects/OWASP_Secure_Coding_Practices_-_Quick_Reference_Guide/Releases/SCP_v1 "wikilink") Release

#### Project Leader for this Release

***[Keith Turpin](user:Keith_Turpin "wikilink")'s Pre-Assessment
Check-list:***

## Project Leader review

{{ Template:Pre-Assessment Questions - Documents

| 1. Is this release associated with a project containing at least the
[Project Wiki Page Minimum
Content](Assessing_Project_Health#Project_Wiki_Page_Minimal_Content "wikilink")
information? = Yes

| 2. Is your document licensed under a free and open license? (see
Project Licensing section of the [Guidelines for OWASP
Projects](http://www.owasp.org/index.php/Guidelines_for_OWASP_Projects))
Please point out the link(s). = Yes - Creative Commons Attribution
ShareAlike 3.0 license

| 3. Is the document available as a PDF (Portable Document Format) and
an editable (.Doc) format on the project site? Please point out the
link(s). = Yes

| 4. Are all articles that constitute the project release properly
tagged within project category and available from main project Wiki
page? Please point out the link(s). = Yes Project current linked to in
the Documents section of the Alpha projects page: -
<http://www.owasp.org/index.php/Category:OWASP_Project#tab=Alpha_Status_Projects>
Project pages: -
<http://www.owasp.org/index.php/OWASP_Secure_Coding_Practices_-_Quick_Reference_Guide#tab=Project_About>
-
<http://www.owasp.org/index.php/OWASP_Secure_Coding_Practices_-_Quick_Reference_Guide#tab=Main>
-
<http://www.owasp.org/index.php/Projects/OWASP_Secure_Coding_Practices_-_Quick_Reference_Guide/Releases/Current>

| 5. Is there a roadmap for this project release which will take it from
Alpha to Stable release? Please point out the link(s). = Yes, However
this is a mature project seeking stable release now
<http://www.owasp.org/index.php/OWASP_Secure_Coding_Practices_-_Quick_Reference_Guide/Roadmap>

| 6. Are the Alpha pre-assessment items complete? = Yes

| 7. Are all document contents (articles) present and listed on the
OWASP project wiki page? Please point out the link(s). = Yes
<http://www.owasp.org/index.php/OWASP_Secure_Coding_Practices_-_Quick_Reference_Guide#tab=Project_About>
<http://www.owasp.org/index.php/OWASP_Secure_Coding_Practices_-_Quick_Reference_Guide#tab=Main>

| 8. Is there user documentation on the OWASP project wiki page? Please
point out the link(s). = N/A

| 9. Is there an “About This Document” section in the document listing:
= Yes

| 10. Is there documentation on how to build the tool from source
including obtaining the source from the code repository? = N/A

| 11. Are the Alpha and Beta pre-assessment items complete? = Yes

| 12. Have any limitations been documented? Please point out the
link(s). = No

| 13. Does the document consider [OWASP Writing
Style](http://www.owasp.org/index.php/OWASP_Writing_Style) and [OWASP
Template for
Docs](http://www.owasp.org/index.php/OWASP_Template_Document)? Please
point out the link(s) = Yes

| 14. Is there a one sheet overview document about the project release?
Please point out the link(s). = Yes

| 15. Is the document in a format which can be converted to an OWASP
book? (books are currently via Lulu.com) Please point out the link(s). =
I believe so, it depends on the size and format of the desired final
product, but since lulu supports U.S. Letter, I would say yes.
Condensing to a smaller format would not be difficult.

}}

#### First Reviewer

***[Ludovic Petit](user:Ludovic_Petit "wikilink")'s Review:***

## First Reviewer

<small>Ideally, reviewers should be an existing OWASP project leader or
chapter leader.</small>

{{ :Template:Assessment Questions - Documents

| 1. Does the document consider the [OWASP Writing
Style](http://www.owasp.org/index.php/OWASP_Writing_Style)? = answer 1
Yes, but text has to be justified for a more relevant presentation.

May I also suggest the following? I fully understand – and I agree with
- the aim of a Quick Reference Guide, however in my view, 2 options
could be studied:

The 1st one is to let pages 1, 2 and 3 as this.

The 2nd one could be: Just have the logo, Title and Copyright on page 1
Table of Contents on page 2 And Introduction on page 3

this because at a first look, having the Table of Contents on page 2
after the Intro do not ‘seem’ to be coherent (due to the fact that
generally, we have the habit to have a Table of Contents before an Intro
of a subject).

It’s just a suggestion anyway.

| 2. Do contents from wiki articles match download-able documents? (PDF
and .doc versions) = answer 2 Yes

| 3. Does the document have an “About This Document” section which
allows the end user to get an overview of the state of the document? =
answer 3 Yes

| 4. How completely does the release address the goal of the project? Is
the overall document complete in structure and organization? Are any
missing or incomplete sections critical enough to keep the document at
an Alpha quality level? = answer 4 The document fulfils the aim of being
a Quick Reference Guide, but my personal feeling is that something is
missing however:

What about the awareness level of the developer supposed to take all
these inputs into account?

Indeed, as it is said in the Introduction, this document is presented in
a checklist format; and because it has to be handled as a checklist, the
1st check to take into account is to ensure about the willingness of the
developer to engage in such a process of checking his own awareness
level.

So, to be short, I don’t know what exactly and how to say something
about that, but I just wished to raise this to your attention because
that could be appreciated afterwards by people reading the Guide.

It’s up to you.

| 5. Have all the Beta Reviewer Action Items been completed? These will
need to be completed if they have not already occurred during a previous
assessment. = answer 5 I guess so

| 6. Have any limitations been documented? Please point out the link(s).
= answer 6

| 7. Does the document substantially address the application security
issues it was created to solve? = answer 7 Yes indeed, short, precise
and easy to read.

| 8. Does the document respect OWASP Writing Style and OWASP Template
for Docs? = answer 8 I guess yes about the OWASP Writing Style, but to
ensure about Template

| 9. Have you noted any limitations of the document that are not already
documented by the project release lead? = answer 9 Not yet

| 10. Would you consider using this document in your day to day work
assuming your professional work includes a reason to use this document?
Would you recommend this document to others in the profession? Why or
why not? = answer 10 Yes, absolutely, given that I’ll also recommend
this Guide to any outsourced services staff, dev staff, specially for
platforms of Services

| 11. What, if anything, is missing which would make this a more useful
document? Is what is missing critical enough to keep the release at a
beta quality? = answer 11 I would say the same as answer 4:

The document fulfils the aim of being a Quick Reference Guide, but my
personal feeling is that something is missing however:

What about the awareness level of the developer supposed to take all
these inputs into account?

Indeed, as it is said in the Introduction, this document is presented in
a checklist format; and because it has to be handled as a checklist, the
1st check to take into account is to ensure about the willingness of the
developer to engage in such a process of checking his own awareness
level.

So, to be short, I don’t know what exactly and how to say something
about that, but I just wished to raise this to your attention because
that could be appreciated afterwards by people reading the Guide.

}}

#### Second Reviewer

***[Brad Causey](user:Bradcausey "wikilink")'s Review:***

## Second Reviewer

<small>It is recommended that an OWASP board member or Global Projects
Committee member be the second reviewer on Quality releases. The board
has the initial option to review the project, followed by the Global
Projects Committee.</small>

{{ :Template:Assessment Questions - Documents

| 1. Does the document consider the [OWASP Writing
Style](http://www.owasp.org/index.php/OWASP_Writing_Style)? =
Affirmative

| 2. Do contents from wiki articles match download-able documents? (PDF
and .doc versions) = Affirmative

| 3. Does the document have an “About This Document” section which
allows the end user to get an overview of the state of the document? =
Affirmative

| 4. How completely does the release address the goal of the project? Is
the overall document complete in structure and organization? Are any
missing or incomplete sections critical enough to keep the document at
an Alpha quality level? = Completely. The project leader has done a
great job addressing the target audience with relevant information to
the subject of the project.

| 5. Have all the Beta Reviewer Action Items been completed? These will
need to be completed if they have not already occurred during a previous
assessment. = Affirmative

| 6. Have any limitations been documented? Please point out the link(s).
= None that I'm aware of are necessary other than what is included
within the document itself.

| 7. Does the document substantially address the application security
issues it was created to solve? = Affirmative - and very well

| 8. Does the document respect OWASP Writing Style and OWASP Template
for Docs? = Affirmative

| 9. Have you noted any limitations of the document that are not already
documented by the project release lead? = None

| 10. Would you consider using this document in your day to day work
assuming your professional work includes a reason to use this document?
Would you recommend this document to others in the profession? Why or
why not? = Affirmative

| 11. What, if anything, is missing which would make this a more useful
document? Is what is missing critical enough to keep the release at a
beta quality? = It would be great to see an integration guide on how to
combine this with an existing or new SDLC. This would be slated for a
later project/release. }}

__NOTOC__ <headertabs/>