<small>[Click here to return to project's detail
tab](:Projects/HTMLReg "wikilink")</small>

## Stable Release Review of the OWASP HTMLReg's Version 1.0

#### Project Leader for this Release

***[Gareth Heyes](mailto:gazheyes@gmail.com)'s Pre-Assessment
Checklist:***

{{ Pre-Assessment Questions - Tools

| 1. Is this release associated with a project containing at least the
[Project Wiki Page Minimum
Content](Assessing_Project_Health#Project_Wiki_Page_Minimal_Content "wikilink")
information? = answer 1

| 2. Is your tool licensed under an open source license? = answer 2

| 3. Is the source code and any documentation available in an online
project repository? = answer 3

| 4. Is there working code? = answer 4

| 5. Is there a roadmap for this project release which will take it from
Alpha to Stable release? = answer 5

| 6. Are the Alpha pre-assessment items complete? = answer 6

| 7. Is there an installer or stand-alone executable? = answer 7

| 8. Is there user documentation on the OWASP project wiki page? =
answer 8

| 9. Is there an "About box" or similar help item which lists the
following? = answer 9

| 10. Is there documentation on how to build the tool from source
including obtaining the source from the code repository? = answer 10

| 11. Is the tool documentation stored in the same repository as the
source code? = answer 11

| 12. Are the Alpha and Beta pre-assessment items complete? = answer 12

| 13. Does the tool include documentation built into the tool? = answer
13

| 14. Does the tool include build scripts to automate builds? = answer
14

| 15. Is there a publicly accessible bug tracking system? = answer 15

| 16. Have any existing limitations of the tool been documented? =
answer 16 }}

#### First Reviewer

***[Name?](mailto:name@name)'s Review:***
<small>Ideally, reviewers should be an existing OWASP project leader or
chapter leader.</small>

{{ Assessment Questions - Tools

| 1. Is an installer for the tool available and easy to use? How close
does it reach the goal of a fully automated installer? = (answer \#1)
Delete this text and place your answer here. The same for the questions
below.

| 2. Is the end user documentation complete, relevant and presented on
the OWASP wiki page? = (answer \#2)

|3. Does the tool have an “About box” or similar help item which allows
the end user to get an overview of the state of this tool? Is this
information readily available and easy to find? = (answer \#3)

| 4. Does the documentation on building the source provide the necessary
information and detail to allow someone to build the tool? Is there
sufficient detail and information for the target user? Is there any
domain specific knowledge that is assumed and not provided? = (answer
\#4)

| 5. Is the tool's documentation available with the source code and
would it readily discoverable by a new user of the tool? = (answer \#5)

| 6. Is there anything missing that is critical enough to keep the
release at a alpha quality? = (answer \#6)

| 7. Does the tool substantially address the application security issues
it was created to solve? = (answer \#7)

| 8. Is the tool reasonably easy to use? = (answer \#8)

| 9. Does the documentation meet the needs of the tool users and is
easily found? = (answer \#9)

| 10. Do the build scripts work as expected? Can you build the tool? The
goal is a “One-click” build. = (answer \#10)

| 11. Is the bug tracking system usable? Is it hosted at the same place
as the source code? (e.g. Google Code, Sourceforge) = (answer \#11)

| 12. Have you noted any limitations of the tool that are not already
documented by the project lead. = (answer \#12)

| 13. Would you consider using this tool in your day to day work
assuming your professional work includes a reason to use this tool? Why
or why not? = (answer \#13)

| 14. What, if anything, is missing which would make this a more useful
tool? Is what is missing critical enough to keep the release at a beta
quality? = (answer \#14)

}}

#### Second Reviewer

***[Name?](mailto:name@name)'s Review:***
<small>It is recommended that an OWASP board member or Global Projects
Committee member be the second reviewer on Quality releases. The board
has the initial option to review the project, followed by the Global
Projects Committee.</small> {{ Assessment Questions - Tools

| 1. Is an installer for the tool available and easy to use? How close
does it reach the goal of a fully automated installer? = (answer \#1)
Delete this text and place your answer here. The same for the questions
below.

| 2. Is the end user documentation complete, relevant and presented on
the OWASP wiki page? = (answer \#2)

|3. Does the tool have an “About box” or similar help item which allows
the end user to get an overview of the state of this tool? Is this
information readily available and easy to find? = (answer \#3)

| 4. Does the documentation on building the source provide the necessary
information and detail to allow someone to build the tool? Is there
sufficient detail and information for the target user? Is there any
domain specific knowledge that is assumed and not provided? = (answer
\#4)

| 5. Is the tool's documentation available with the source code and
would it readily discoverable by a new user of the tool? = (answer \#5)

| 6. Is there anything missing that is critical enough to keep the
release at a alpha quality? = (answer \#6)

| 7. Does the tool substantially address the application security issues
it was created to solve? = (answer \#7)

| 8. Is the tool reasonably easy to use? = (answer \#8)

| 9. Does the documentation meet the needs of the tool users and is
easily found? = (answer \#9)

| 10. Do the build scripts work as expected? Can you build the tool? The
goal is a “One-click” build. = (answer \#10)

| 11. Is the bug tracking system usable? Is it hosted at the same place
as the source code? (e.g. Google Code, Sourceforge) = (answer \#11)

| 12. Have you noted any limitations of the tool that are not already
documented by the project lead. = (answer \#12)

| 13. Would you consider using this tool in your day to day work
assuming your professional work includes a reason to use this tool? Why
or why not? = (answer \#13)

| 14. What, if anything, is missing which would make this a more useful
tool? Is what is missing critical enough to keep the release at a beta
quality? = (answer \#14)

}}

__NOTOC__ <headertabs/>