__TOC__

# Meeting Details

**Dial-In:** 1-866-534-4754 (code: 192341)

**When:** Friday, April 1st @ 18:00 GMT (based on [member
availability](http://www.doodle.com/iwd3xcznai4dk3d5))

# Agenda

## Old Business

Action items from [last
meeting](GPC/Meetings/2011-03-07#Action_Items "wikilink"):

  - ESAPI PHP project leadership outreach (Chris)
  - Project management workflow (Jason/Paulo)
  - Licensing issues overview (Justin)
  - OWASP Enterprise outline/highlights (Justin/Chris)
  - Leveraging Google Moderator or other meeting tools (Jason)

## Items Requiring Vote

  - Confirm [Keith
    Turpin](Global_Projects_and_Tools_Committee_-_Application_6 "wikilink")
    as a new GPC member
  - Adopt "[Presumption of Assent](Talk:GPC/Governance "wikilink")"
    clause to GPC Governance
  - Confirm "[mission statement](GPC/Governance#Mission "wikilink")"
  - Finalize [Hosting RFP](GPC/RFP/Project_Hosting "wikilink")

## Discussion Items

  - Reorganized Projects Page
  - Process for Request for Contributors
  - Incubator Project qualities
  - Labs Project qualities
  - Mainstream Project qualities
  - Current Projects Status
      - **New projects set up**
          - [OWASP ESOP Framework](OWASP_ESOP_Framework "wikilink")
          - [OWASP German Language
            Project](OWASP_German_Language_Project "wikilink")
          - [OWASP Mantra - Security
            Framework](OWASP_Mantra_-_Security_Framework "wikilink")
          - [OWASP Java HTML Sanitizer
            Project](OWASP_Java_HTML_Sanitizer_Project "wikilink")
          - [OWASP Java Encoder
            Project](OWASP_Java_Encoder_Project "wikilink")
          - [OWASP Threat Modelling
            Project](OWASP_Threat_Modelling_Project "wikilink")
          - [OWASP Hackademic Challenges
            Project](OWASP_Hackademic_Challenges_Project "wikilink")
          - [OWASP Hatkit Proxy
            Project](OWASP_Hatkit_Proxy_Project "wikilink")
          - [OWASP Hatkit Datafiddler
            Project](OWASP_Hatkit_Datafiddler_Project "wikilink")
      - **Projects re-organized**
          - [OWASP Common Numbering
            Project](OWASP_Common_Numbering_Project "wikilink")
          - [ESAPI Swingset](ESAPI_Swingset "wikilink")
          - [OWASP ESAPI Swingset Interactive
            Project](Projects/OWASP_ESAPI_Swingset_Interactive_Project "wikilink")
          - [Projects/OWASP ESAPI Swingset Demo
            Project](Projects/OWASP_ESAPI_Swingset_Demo_Project "wikilink")
      - **New Release set up**
          - [OWASP LAPSE Project - Release - LapsePlus
            2.8.1](Projects/OWASP_LAPSE_Project/Releases/LapsePlus_2.8.1 "wikilink")
          - [OWASP ModSecurity Core Rule Set Projec - Release -
            ModSecurity
            2.1.2](Projects/OWASP_ModSecurity_Core_Rule_Set_Project/Releases/ModSecurity_2.1.2 "wikilink")
          - [Projects/OWASP WebScarab NG Project/ - Releases -
            WebScarab-NG-0.2.1](Projects/OWASP_WebScarab_NG_Project/Releases/WebScarab-Ng-0.2.1 "wikilink")
          - [Projects/OWASP WebScarab NG Project/ - Releases -
            WebScarab-NG-0.3.0](Projects/OWASP_WebScarab_NG_Project/Releases/WebScarab-NG-0.3.0 "wikilink")
      - **Adopted & re-set up projects**
          - [OWASP Application Security Assessment Standards
            Project](:Category:OWASP_Application_Security_Assessment_Standards_Project "wikilink")
      - **Changing of leadershio & re-set up projects**
          - [OWASP WebScarab NG
            Project](Projects/OWASP_WebScarab_NG_Project "wikilink")
          - [OWASP Student Chapters
            Program](Projects/OWASP_Student_Chapters_Program "wikilink")
      - **Projects Awaiting GPC Action**
          - 'Project in need of reorganization'
              - ESAPI
              - CSRF Ecosystem, Sheridan
              - [OWASP AppSensor
                Project](OWASP_AppSensor_Project "wikilink")
      - **Other tasks to do**
          - Design and implementation (if agreed by GPC) of a 'OWASP
            Spring Season of Projects Assessment'
          - Portuguese Government Protocol/OWASP Academy Concept's
            design/experiment. See
            [here](Summit_2011_Working_Sessions/Session098 "wikilink")
            and
            [here](https://docs.google.com/Doc?docid=0AX4Puwz7EA41ZGNuODk2MmNfMTFncXE2Yjlkag&hl=en&authkey=CN_u3r4B).
          - [Greek Chapter's Training
            event](Greece/Training/OWASP_projects_and_resources_you_can_use_TODAY "wikilink")
          - Allocation of ISBN numbers to each OWASP/Lulu book.
          - Top 10/Upload redesigned content and new covers (Lulu)
      - **Outstanding Requests by Project Leaders**
          - None except the above

# Minutes

  - Meeting started: 18:00 GMT
  - Meeting adjourned: 18:45 GMT
  - [Update for May Board
    meeting](https://docs.google.com/present/view?id=0AWvv_7Gz8Z7TZGdmOGZybWhfMTBreGR6bTNkZA&hl=en&authkey=CNOj5oEH)

## Attendees

  - Jason Li (chair)
  - Justin Searle (Committee Member)
  - Paulo Coimbra (Projects Manager)

## Notes

1.  Lack of quorum due to confusion over time zone
2.  "Official" meeting canceled due to lack of attendance
3.  Justin updated Jason on his
    [research](GPC/Meetings/2011-03-07#Action_Items "wikilink") on
    licensing models

## Action Items

1.  Ensure time-zone clarity in scheduling future meetings

[Category:GPC_Meetings](Category:GPC_Meetings "wikilink")
[Category:GPC_Meetings/2011](Category:GPC_Meetings/2011 "wikilink")