# Meeting Details

**Dial-In:** 1-866-534-4754 (code: 192341)

**When:** Friday, June 7th @ 15:00 GMT *or* Friday, June 7th @ 23:00 GMT
(based on [member availability](http://doodle.com/mdwm3my2szm9ps2k))

# Agenda

  - Committee Feedback on
      - [Working Session
        Minutes](http://sl.owasp.org/gpcws-jun11-minutes)
      - [Working Session
        Proceedings](http://sl.owasp.org/gpcws-jun11-proceedings)
      - [Projects
        Handbook](http://sl.owasp.org/gpcws-jun11-projects-handbook)
  - Project Hosting
      - SourceForge contract status update
      - Roll out timeline
  - AppSec USA
      - Status update on [OWASP Track](OWASP_Track "wikilink")
      - AppSensor as Flagship?
      - Common Numbering System concerns
      - Open Source Projects Showcase
      - GPC Working Session \#2

# Minutes

**AM Meeting**

  - Meeting Started: 15:00 GMT
  - Meeting Adjourned: 16:20 GMT

**PM Meeting**

  - Meeting Started: 23:00 GMT
  - Meeting Adjourned: 0:03 GMT (next day)

<!-- end list -->

  - Update for August Board meeting

# Attendees

**AM Meeting**

  - Jason Li (Chair)
  - Justin Searle (Committee Member)
  - Keith Turpin (Committee Member)
  - Paulo Coimbra (Projects Manager)

**PM Meeting**

  - Jason Li (Chair)
  - Brad Causey (Committee Member)
  - Chris Scmhidt (Committee Member)
  - Sarah Baso (GPC Working Session Support)
  - Michael Coates (Guest - Global Membership Committee)

# Notes

**AM Meeting**

  - Comments and feedback to Working Session Proceedings, Minutes, and
    Projects Handbook addressed live in shared doc
  - Suggested a community feedback period of at least two weeks but less
    than three weeks
  - Suggestion to investigate whether a project can be "dropped" from
    the OWASP neighborhood without be removed from SourceForge to allow
    projects "removed" from OWASP to continue
  - Reaffirmed current hierarchy of Incubator / Labs / Flagship projects
      - Will flesh out the idea of an "OWASP Featured" tag for projects
        to rotate on periodic basis
  - Based on indication from Dave Wichers regarding lack of time for
    Common Numbering, attendees agreed that it would *not* be pushed to
    Flagship despite strategic importance
  - Keith/Justin indicated lack of sufficient familiarity with AppSensor
    to comment at this time on Flagship status
  - Agreed that [working session
    agenda](http://sl.owasp.org/gpcws-jun11-proceedings#h.s48in59ryj4q)
    policy was successful and structure should be mirrored for future
    working sessions:
      - One Strategic Decision to be made
      - One High Level Policy to craft
      - One "Grunt Work" task to complete (suggested task for GPC WS @
        AppSecUSA is to migrate all projects from current wiki to
        SourceForge infrastructure)
  - Resolved to begin planning second working session

**PM Meeting**

  - Comments and feedback to Working Session Proceedings, Minutes, and
    Projects Handbook addressed live in shared doc
      - Rework incubator removal process to be more generic and apply to
        all projects
  - Reaffirmed current hierarchy of Incubator / Labs / Flagship projects
  - Agreed with the idea of an "OWASP Featured" tag
  - Confirmed the ability of SourceForce to "tag" projects
  - Agreed that Common Numbering would not be pushed to Flagship
  - Chris/Brad support AppSensor as Flagship project
  - Agreed with working session agenda guidelines and proposed grunt
    work task for next working session
  - Suggested staged roll out of reviewer pool in order to allow
    reviewer pool time to self populate
  - Michael presented his idea for Open Source Projects Showcase
      - GPC to reach out to existing projects about availability of
        showcase space
      - Liaise with appropriate parties to reach out to projects outside
        of OWASP
      - Suggestion to solicit video demos from project leaders who
        cannot attend to be played at the OWASP Projects Booth

**Aggregate Outcomes**

  - Working Session Proceedings, Minutes, and Projects Handbook approved
    by committee members; community feedback period to commence ASAP
  - Reaffirmed current hierarchy of Incubator / Labs / Flagship projects
  - Agreed to flesh out "OWASP Featured" tag
  - Agreed that Common Numbering will not be pushed as a Flagship
    project until project has enough initiative from project leader
  - Resolved to examine AppSensor for Flagship designation by launch of
    Project Lifecycle process
  - Agreed on working session agenda guidelines

[Category:GPC Meetings](Category:GPC_Meetings "wikilink") [Category:GPC
Meetings/2011](Category:GPC_Meetings/2011 "wikilink")