__TOC__

# Project Division Updates

  - **[Project
    Numbers](https://docs.google.com/a/owasp.org/spreadsheet/ccc?key=0AllOCxlYdf1AdFdaYXJ6SDFXNXBaemNwbnNHN3N5RVE#gid=16)**
      - Active Projects: 119
      - Inactive Projects: 67

<!-- end list -->

  - **[Pending Project
    Applications](https://docs.google.com/a/owasp.org/spreadsheet/ccc?key=0Amvv_7Gz8Z7TdHZfWGhHZ0Z4UFFwZU42djBXcVVLSlE#gid=0)**
      - CISO Survey
      - Application Security Guide For CISOs
      - Medical Warehouse

## Currently Working On

  - **SourceForge Update**
      - I have reached out to Audrey, our Geeknet representative, and
        asked if she has received payment from us.
      - I have also asked her to confirm if our account is in fact
        closed.
      - I am still waiting to hear back from her.

<!-- end list -->

  - **OWASP Licenses Update**
      - This is the final draft of the letter:
        [Letter.](https://docs.google.com/a/owasp.org/document/d/1n3xEFUfUqd2qJ2udRn3itKtDMBnOYA9dvsIGAnFIEZM/edit)
      - I have sent this to the projects with licensing issues.
      - I am still waiting to hear back from all of them.

<!-- end list -->

  - **AppSec APAC 2013: Planning**
      - We have not received any applications for participation in the
        AppSec APAC OSS.
      - Sarah and I discussed the possibility of doing away with this
        particular event module, and focus on getting speakers for the
        OWASP Track instead. I agreed.
      - We decided to wait until Wednesday of next week to take the
        banners down. This will give those interested in applying, a bit
        more time.
      - We asked the local team what projects they are interested in
        having at their conference.
      - They gave us a list, and we are in the process of getting those
        project representatives to apply for the OWASP Track.

<!-- end list -->

  - **Project Support Volunteer Role Development**
      - The roles have now been allocated for each volunteer that has
        expressed interest in working with OWASP.
      - I will have a meeting with the successful candidates regarding
        their project support duties, next week.
      - I will send more information to the other volunteers about the
        different ways they can support the Guidebook projects during
        their development.

<!-- end list -->

  - **New Project Web Page**
      - The new web page development is almost complete.
      - The only information missing is the Assessment Criteria and
        Project Terminology.
      - Please see below for my proposal on the Assessment Criteria.

<!-- end list -->

  - **Assessment Criteria, Lifecycle, and Graduation Processes**
      - I have sent my proposal to all GPC members.
      - Lets discuss this today.
      - Process form development: Proposal Completed
      - Project Stage Benefits: Proposal Completed
      - Project Graduation Process & Criteria: Proposal Completed
      - Project Deliverable/Release Review Criteria: Proposal Completed
      - Project Migration Process: Proposal Completed

<!-- end list -->

  - **Daily Project based queries and requests**
      - This has not changed much since I began the post: questions are
        very similar in nature.
      - Global AppSec questions.
      - Funding queries.
      - Travel availability.
      - Project based administrative help.
      - Project status information.
      - Several project donations questions.
      - OWASP LinkedIn Updates.
      - What's happening with projects, questions.

## More Funding Potential

1.  Guidebooks Grant Payment: We have submitted the forms, and are
    waiting to hear back from Deb.
2.  ESAPI Grant Proposal: The proposal has passed the first round of
    reviews. It is now at the peer review stage with 6 other
    applications.
3.  We have now begun the process of grant writing for the ModSecurity
    Project.
4.  Ryan and I are still developing the project plan.
5.  This will be for a $30,000 grant proposal.

## Attendees

  - Samantha Groves
  - Nishi Kumar
  - Keith Turpin
  - Kate Hartman
  - Jason Li

## Announcements

1.  Geeknet: Audrey from Geeknet has not gotten back to me. I reached
    out to her to make sure she has received payment. I will reach out
    to her again come next week.
2.  AppSec APAC Planning: We might have to do away with the OSS at
    AppSec APAC 2013. There have been no applicants for this event
    module. We are focusing on the Projects Track, and reaching out to
    speakers for this.
3.  Project Support Volunteer Role: I have selected the candidates for
    these roles. They have agreed, and I am meeting with them next week
    to discuss their roles.
4.  New Project Web Page: This is mostly complete. The only information
    that is missing is the Assessment Criteria Page information, and the
    Project Terminology Information. Please edit away.
5.  Assessment Criteria, Lifecycle, and Graduation Processes: Please
    have a look at the attached document and send feedback, suggestions,
    concerns, solutions, etc.
6.  Presentation Comments: Keith suggested we make a template for each
    lifecycle stage. This will ensure the reader is fully aware what
    stage the project is in within the OWASP Project Lifecycle. I agree,
    this is a great idea.
7.  We need to very clearly outline what level of usability a project
    will be expected to be in at each stage.
8.  Project Benefits Comments: It was suggested that we move the
    technical writing support and graphic design support benefits to the
    Labs stage as opposed to having this benefits for Incubator
    projects.
9.  Additional Incubator Benefit: Recognition and visibility of being
    associated with the OWASP Brand.

[Category:GPC_Meetings](Category:GPC_Meetings "wikilink")
[Category:GPC_Meetings/2012](Category:GPC_Meetings/2012 "wikilink")