__TOC__

# Project Division Updates

  - **Project Numbers**
      - Active Projects: 117 ( Need to define "Active Project" criteria)
      - Archived Projects: 41

## Currently Working On

  - **SourceForge Update**
      - Audrey from Geeknet has responded to me.
      - The Geeknet team has decided not to accept any of our options,
        see below:
      - Option 1: OWASP would like to propose that Geeknet waive either
        all or a percentage of the invoice fee, and redistribute the
        funds as a donation to the OWASP Foundation.
      - Option 2: OWASP would like to propose a 1 year corporate
        membership, and a 6 month online rotating banner advertisement
        in exchange for $10,000 being deduction from the Invoice in
        question. Total value: $17,500 in OWASP Services.
      - However, they did deduct $2500 from the original invoice:
        [Update Geeknet
        Invoice.](https://mail-attachment.googleusercontent.com/attachment/u/0/?ui=2&ik=715b9008a7&view=att&th=13b624ca0e11b42e&attid=0.1&disp=inline&realattid=f_haa0cl6l0&safe=1&zw&saduie=AG9B_P8vApHtvIv6pHWL4NMT_NLk&sadet=1354903098927&sads=76Uv12K1F9dzP-Sn5_RIxBnhYOo)
      - We have agreed to take this deduction, and are currently
        processing their payment.

<!-- end list -->

  - **OWASP Licenses Update**
      - I drafted the e-mail Justin asked me to put together regarding
        the three projects with non open source licenses.
      - I have sent it to all GPC members.
      - I have made the changes as well:
        [Letter.](https://docs.google.com/a/owasp.org/document/d/1n3xEFUfUqd2qJ2udRn3itKtDMBnOYA9dvsIGAnFIEZM/edit)
      - Lets discuss how we want to handle this.

<!-- end list -->

  - **AppSec APAC 2013: Planning**
      - OSS & OPT forms are up.
      - Developed banners for each event: [Projects
        Page](https://www.owasp.org/index.php/Category:OWASP_Project).
      - Using the banners in a communications piece that will launch
        next week. LinkedIn, Blog, Twitter.
      - I am attending the conference to help coordinate the event, and
        I am leading the Chapter Leader Workshop with the help of a
        translator.

<!-- end list -->

  - **Salesforce Data Migration**
      - Salesforce migration is now complete.
      - All project data is up-to-date based on the GPCs project
        inventory spreadsheet.

<!-- end list -->

  - **Project Support Volunteer Role Development**
      - This role was developed to help the 3 Guidebook projects with
        project support duties.
      - We received 14 applicants in total.
      - The application is now closed
      - Roles will be allocated next week.

<!-- end list -->

  - **Daily Project based queries and requests**
      - This has not changed much since I began the post: questions are
        very similar in nature.
      - Global AppSec questions.
      - Funding queries.
      - Travel availability.
      - Project based administrative help.
      - Project status information.
      - Several project donations questions.
      - OWASP LinkedIn Updates.
      - What's happening with projects, questions.

## More Funding Potential

1.  Guidebooks Grant Payment: Deb has delivered the correct form, and we
    are in the process of putting it together for her.
2.  ESAPI Grant Proposal: Still waiting to hear back from Deb.
3.  Google Grants Application is complete and Submitted.
4.  We are set to hear back from the Google Grants team by the beginning
    of 2013.
5.  We have now begun the process of grant writing for the ModSecurity
    Project.
6.  Ryan and I are still developing the project plan.
7.  This will be for a $30,000 grant proposal for the DHS.

## Attendees

1.  Samantha Groves
2.  Nishi Kumar
3.  Keith Turpin
4.  Kate Hartmann

## Announcements

1.  ModSecurity Proposal grant writing is in progress.
2.  SourceForge: They have responded. They decided to decline both
    options proposed by OWASP, but they have deducted $2500 from the
    original bill. We are currently processing the new invoice.
3.  AppSec APAC 2013: Call for Entries for the Open Source Showcase &
    OWASP Projects Track will be launched again. Justin, Sam and
    possibly Nishi and Keith will attend.
4.  Part-Time Project Support Volunteer Role for Guidebook Projects:
    Final applicant count was 14. I am currently processing the
    applications, and will allocate roles come next week.
5.  FOSDEM: the application for a stand was submitted this week. If we
    get the stand, Seba and Martin K. will manage it for OWASP.
6.  Nishi: Will touch base with Matt Tesauro regarding the wiki file
    size requirement.
7.  Question for Justin: Have you spoken to James Greenberg from AppSec
    Labs? Have they come to a decision regarding their license choice,
    and whether they are choosing to continue as an OWASP Project?
8.  Question: Do we have criteria that measures whether a project is
    active or not?: Answer: OpsTeam is working on creating an e-mail
    through Salesforce that will ask all current 'Active' project
    leaders to give us a status update. Additionally, it will give them
    an opportunity to update their information.
9.  Active Project Criteria: We discussed the idea of requiring project
    leaders to send us an update every six months, or annually. The aim
    is to make sure a project is still active.
10. Project Update required information would be something along the
    lines of: Update the wiki with links and announcements, summary of
    what you have accomplished, summary of your future plans.

[Category:GPC_Meetings](Category:GPC_Meetings "wikilink")
[Category:GPC_Meetings/2012](Category:GPC_Meetings/2012 "wikilink")