__TOC__

# Project Division Updates

  - **Project Numbers**
      - Active Projects: 113
      - Archived Projects: 41
      - Graveyard Projects: 24
      - Merged Projects: 43

<!-- end list -->

  - **Pending Project Donations**: We are still working on creating a
    Project Donation Contract. Sarah is looking into this for us.
      - [OWASP XSSER](OWASP_XSSER "wikilink")
      - OWASP XSS Cheat Sheet
      - [OWASP Security Shepherd](OWASP_Security_Shepherd "wikilink")

<!-- end list -->

  - **Pending New Project Leader Appointment**
      - [OWASP Stinger project](OWASP_Stinger_project "wikilink"): This
        project is currently being transfered. The new project leader
        has been appointed.

## Currently Working On

  - **[Projects Communications
    Restructuring](https://www.owasp.org/index.php/Test2test)**
      - Continue to fill this in weekly with relevant information.
      - The information will be changing as we are not done with the
        projects handbook, and we have not finalised the actual
        processes yet.
      - Completed pages:
          - Welcome
          - Starting a New Project
          - Project Database
          - Marketing Materials
          - Sponsorship and Donations
          - Global Projects Committee Page
          - Contact Us
      - Incomplete Pages
          - Project Assessment
          - Project Terminology
          - Press and Communications

<!-- end list -->

  - **SalesForce Metadata Migration**
      - Continue to work with Kate to finish the migration.
      - Active projects should be complete.
      - Currently collecting Archive project information

<!-- end list -->

  - **Daily Project based queries and requests**
      - This has not changed much since I began the post: questions are
        very similar in nature.
      - AppSec USA 2012 queries
      - Travel queries
      - Budget based questions
      - Funding questions
      - Project based administrative help
      - Project status information
      - Several project donations questions

<!-- end list -->

  - **[DHS Host Project Funding
    Proposal](https://docs.google.com/a/owasp.org/document/d/1MA3TI5ssclxvheV8At_ffu2Fuic55SDpOokS3AOvBUc/edit#bookmark=id.ceef3790c8d6)**
      - We are currently waiting to hear back from Deborah regarding
        funds transfer.
      - They have a big conference next week so I suspect they are quite
        busy putting that together.
      - I will touch base with her afterwards.

<!-- end list -->

  - **[Projects
    Handbook](https://docs.google.com/a/owasp.org/document/d/1MpZx5w4TaqS-FoQaEXDhncz6dhG4mdgC4id2HsJQhjc/edit#)**
      - [The archived
        Handbook](https://docs.google.com/a/owasp.org/document/d/1ilLGVEM4zWiPgMPDRHe8ARdeLSnoBTUtMq0C-Ta45tc/edit?authkey=CLTW_MUO&authkey=CLTW_MUO#)
      - Completing this will help us move forward in projects
        significantly as we know.
      - I have gone through it this week, and I feel it is in a good
        pre-final draft stage.
      - Please have a read through it and we can discuss it in our next
        meeting.

## More Funding Potential

1.  [OWASP ESAPI FUNDING
    PROPOSAL](https://docs.google.com/a/owasp.org/document/d/16ZFXaML8C7aDAZdyTMDDg4BzLr1vUTOz9eqmYE8ZW8U/edit)
2.  I was able to get in touch and meet with Chris this week.
3.  He has agreed to continue as the project leader for ESAP Reboot
    2012.
4.  We have agreed to start working together on the DHS Funding
    Proposal.
5.  If we are successful, this will be another $25K for projects.

[Category:GPC_Meetings](Category:GPC_Meetings "wikilink")
[Category:GPC_Meetings/2012](Category:GPC_Meetings/2012 "wikilink")