__TOC__

# Project Division Updates

  - **Project Numbers**
      - Active Projects: 116
      - Archived Projects: 41
      - Merged Projects: 43

<!-- end list -->

  - **New OWASP Projects**
      - [OWASP Periodic Table of
        Vulnerabilities](https://www.owasp.org/index.php/OWASP_Periodic_Table_of_Vulnerabilities)
      - [OWASP JSON
        Sanitizer](https://www.owasp.org/index.php/OWASP_JSON_Sanitizer)
      - [OWASP Application Security Awareness Top 10 E-learning
        Project](https://www.owasp.org/index.php/OWASP_Application_Security_Awareness_Top_10_E-learning_Project)

<!-- end list -->

  - **Pending Project Donations/SetUp**:
      - OWASP XSS Cheat Sheet: Needs contract.
      - [OWASP Security Shepherd](OWASP_Security_Shepherd "wikilink")
        Needs contract.

## Currently Working On

  - **Salesforce Metadata Migration**
      - Kate and I continue to work together to complete this project.
      - We are still working on creating a template e-mail to send to
        all active project leaders asking them to update their
        information. (Still seeking help for this)
      - Developed 8 forms to help with future requests.
      - We have now developed the forms in Salesforce.
      - Currently, I am in the process of finalising the forms.

<!-- end list -->

  - **Project Support Volunteer Role Development**
      - Samantha put together a role description for a part-time project
        support volunteer.
      - This role was developed to help the 3 Guidebook projects with
        project support duties.
      - Please see the [Volunteer Job Description
        Document](https://docs.google.com/a/owasp.org/document/d/1VAvk7lZzY54EHybSxjc4yjAgoSl0aB08qp4dk9LL5TA/edit)
        for more details.
      - We are looking for 3 separate volunteers that will be
        responsible for the same role.
      - Each volunteer will be responsible for project support duties
        for one project.

<!-- end list -->

  - **SourceForge Update**
      - Jason, Kate and Samantha attended a meeting with the Geeknet
        team.
      - We let them know that we will be ending our contract.
      - We discussed the possibility of proposing alternative payment
        options with them.
      - They agreed to review our proposal.
      - Jason, Kate, and Samantha agreed on two alternative payment
        options.
      - Samantha drafted a response to the Geeknet Team, outlining our
        options.
      - Option 1: OWASP would like to propose that Geeknet waive either
        all or a percentage of the invoice fee, and redistribute the
        funds as a donation to the OWASP Foundation.
      - Option 2: OWASP would like to propose a 1 year corporate
        membership, and a 6 month online rotating banner advertisement
        in exchange for $10,000 being deduction from the Invoice in
        question. Total value: $17,500 in OWASP Services.

<!-- end list -->

  - **[Project Processes
    Development](https://docs.google.com/a/owasp.org/document/d/15lPNSxokO5ogGxWo-xvLNYh0C3c8-nWjgWnRfTfm0OU/edit)**
      - Putting the handbook aside until these are fleshed out and
        agreed to.
      - I feel it is a much better idea to tackle individually, and them
        add them to the handbook.
      - Process form development: 1st Draft Complete, Please Review.
      - Project Stage Benefits: 1st Draft Complete, Please Review.
      - Project Graduation Process: Proposal Still Under Development.
      - Project Graduation Criteria: Proposal Still Under Development.

<!-- end list -->

  - **Daily Project based queries and requests**
      - This has not changed much since I began the post: questions are
        very similar in nature.
      - Global AppSec questions
      - Funding queries
      - Travel availability
      - Project based administrative help
      - Project status information
      - Several project donations questions
      - OWASP LinkedIn Updates
      - What's happening with projects, questions

## More Funding Potential

1.  Guidebooks Grant Payment: Still filling out tax forms for Deb.
    Working with Alison and Kate to get these submitted.
2.  The Google Grant process is going very slowly.
3.  I monitor it and make progress daily.
4.  Ryan is currently putting together his plan for ModSecurity.
5.  I am waiting to hear back from him with his proposal.
6.  This will be for a $30,000 grant proposal for the DHS.

[Category:GPC_Meetings](Category:GPC_Meetings "wikilink")
[Category:GPC_Meetings/2012](Category:GPC_Meetings/2012 "wikilink")