__TOC__

# Project Division Updates

  - **Projects Set Up**
      - [OWASP XSSER](OWASP_XSSER "wikilink")
      - [OWASP ONYX](OWASP_ONYX "wikilink")
      - [OWASP Crossword of the
        Month](OWASP_Crossword_of_the_Month "wikilink")

<!-- end list -->

  - **Projects Confirmed**
      - [OWASP Review BSI IT-Grundschutz Baustein
        Webanwendungen](OWASP_Review_BSI_IT-Grundschutz_Baustein_Webanwendungen "wikilink")
      - [OWASP XSSER](OWASP_XSSER "wikilink")

<!-- end list -->

  - **Pending Project Confirmations**
      - Forensic Guide: Waiting to hear back from the Project Leader.
      - Xelenium: Waiting to hear back from the Project Leader.
      - Intelligent Security: Waiting to hear back from the Project
        Leader.

<!-- end list -->

  - **Pending Project Donations**
      - [OWASP XSSER](OWASP_XSSER "wikilink")
      - OWASP XSS Cheat Sheet

<!-- end list -->

  - **Pending New Project Leader Appointment**
      - [OWASP Stinger project](OWASP_Stinger_project "wikilink")

<!-- end list -->

  - **Inquiries to the Committee**
      - What is the project donation process? Keith can you elaborate on
        it?
      - I have a volunteer wanting to take over a project that is
        inactive. We cannot get hold of the previous PL? What is the
        process to change leaders, if any?

## Currently Working On

  - **Projects Communications Restructuring**
      - I have begun to create the wiki template for the new OWASP
        Projects page.
      - I am having a bit of trouble with the tabs, but I am getting
        help from volunteers on how to do this.

<!-- end list -->

  - **Daily Project based queries and requests**

<!-- end list -->

  - **[AppSec USA
    OSS](https://docs.google.com/a/owasp.org/document/d/1xek9eZqAAt-koEuhOcXE9PoVCsAZ1WZJJoLzVMVj2Ew/edit)**
      - We rolled out the marketing for this recently, and we have
        received 6 entries.
      - As of today, all 6 entries have been accepted.
      - I am drafting acceptance letters with information on what comes
        next for the attendees.These will be sent out next week. We are
        now sorting logistics for the accepted project leaders.
      - There is the question of travel aid for some of the project
        leaders. I suggest we set aside $3,000 for those PLs that ask
        for financial assistance to get to AppSec USA.

<!-- end list -->

  - **[OWASP ZAP Project Marketing
    Recommendations](https://docs.google.com/a/owasp.org/document/d/13jWO7jFfe9NUVlGIddZRrnLA8G5IOTNPjogb61lbbB0/edit)**
      - The marketing recommendations have been agreed on by Simon and
        I.
      - I am currently putting together the projects plan to implement
        them.

<!-- end list -->

  - **[DHS Host Project Funding
    Proposal](https://docs.google.com/a/owasp.org/document/d/1MA3TI5ssclxvheV8At_ffu2Fuic55SDpOokS3AOvBUc/edit#bookmark=id.ceef3790c8d6)**
      - Andrew, Matteo, Eoin and I met to speak about this in more
        depth. Deborah, the home office representative, had some
        concerns about PM software and travel expenses in the budget.
      - She would like to know if we are able to re-allocate the PM
        software and travel expenses to the OWASP portion of the budget.
        This meeting clarified many of the questions I had about
        Deborah's concerns.
      - The PM software is available as open source to open source
        projects, and we have applied for a license already. The travel
        expenses can now come from the OWASP section of the budget.
      - Kate, Deborah and I participated in an interview where we
        discussed DHS concerns. See above. The interview went very well,
        and we are currently waiting to hear back from her.
      - Meeting Outcome: She was going to send us specific instructions
        on what she needed from us regarding the budget, and she is
        going to send us an updated proposal form so we can start
        applying for 2 other OWASP projects she expressed an interest
        in.

<!-- end list -->

  - **[Atlassian Open Source
    License](https://docs.google.com/a/owasp.org/document/d/1f83ShmjwLpmybSVJIBhEXDxTrKuNcIPO3ok0ubAs4t8/edit)**
      - Andrew and I worked together on this application.
      - The Atlassian representative has gotten back to us and the
        company has decided that a community license would be better for
        this project. We are in the process of writing an application
        for the new license recommendation.

## Projects Communication Structure Development Update

1.  We agreed to organize our projects communication through the use of
    Tabs in the OWASP Projects section of the wiki. I am currently
    developing the tabs structure on my local machine.
2.  We agreed that all of the projects documentation must either be
    updated or created and organized in the correct locations on the
    wiki. I am currently organizing the documentation.

## AppSec Ireland

1.  Have been in Dublin, Ireland for AppSec Ireland: From Monday,
    September 03 - Thursday, September 06.
2.  Went to help out with the conference and familiarize myself with the
    way AppSec events are run.
3.  Sat in on a full day training with Jim Manico: Thank you Jim.
4.  Helped coordinate the printing and delivery of OWASP branded items.
5.  Helped manage the registration and information desk.

## Important Meeting Outcomes and Discussion Points

1.  We will have weekly meetings to discuss updates on projects issues.
    The next meeting will be held on Friday, September 14th 2012 at 2pm
    BST.
2.  Jason Li has expressed concern over his minimal availability to
    represent the GPC as Chair of the Committee.
3.  Discussion on the availability of all members.
4.  Larry Casey has resigned his post on the GPC.
5.  Welcome Nishi Kumar, our newest member\!
6.  Apologize for cancelling today's meeting due to illness.

[Category:GPC_Meetings](Category:GPC_Meetings "wikilink")
[Category:GPC_Meetings/2011](Category:GPC_Meetings/2011 "wikilink")