__TOC__

# Project Division Updates

  - **Pending Projects Set Up**
      - TestingTheWeb: Waiting for the 5 day waiting time to run out.
        Then I will set it up.

<!-- end list -->

  - **Pending Project Confirmations**
      - Forensic Guide: Waiting to hear back from the Project Leader.
      - Xelenium: Waiting to hear back from the Project Leader.
      - Intelligent Security: Waiting to hear back from the Project
        Leader.

<!-- end list -->

  - **Pending Project Donations**
      - [OWASP XSSER](OWASP_XSSER "wikilink")
      - OWASP XSS Cheat Sheet

<!-- end list -->

  - **Pending New Project Leader Appointment**
      - [OWASP Stinger project](OWASP_Stinger_project "wikilink")

<!-- end list -->

  - **Inquiries to the Committee**
      - What is the project donation process? Keith can you elaborate on
        it?
      - I have a volunteer wanting to take over a project that is
        inactive. We cannot get hold of the previous PL? What is the
        process to change leaders, if any?

## Currently Working On

  - **Projects Communications Restructuring**
      - I have begun to create the wiki template for the new OWASP
        Projects page.
      - I am having a bit of trouble with the tabs, but I am getting
        help from volunteers on how to do this.

<!-- end list -->

  - **Daily Project based queries and requests**
      - How to get marketing aid: Business Cards
      - AppSec USA 2012 queries

<!-- end list -->

  - **[AppSec USA
    OSS](https://docs.google.com/a/owasp.org/document/d/1xek9eZqAAt-koEuhOcXE9PoVCsAZ1WZJJoLzVMVj2Ew/edit)**
      - We have now accepted 7 entries.
      - Acceptance letters have now been sent out to our seven
        successful candidates.
      - I am drafting a letter to explain logistics, travel and
        conference details to our attendees.

<!-- end list -->

  - **[OWASP ZAP Project Marketing
    Recommendations](https://docs.google.com/a/owasp.org/document/d/13jWO7jFfe9NUVlGIddZRrnLA8G5IOTNPjogb61lbbB0/edit)**
      - The marketing recommendations have been agreed on by Simon and
        I.
      - The project's plan is being finished off today.
      - Simon and I are meeting on Monday to begin implementing his
        OWASP ZAP's marketing strategy

<!-- end list -->

  - **[DHS Host Project Funding
    Proposal](https://docs.google.com/a/owasp.org/document/d/1MA3TI5ssclxvheV8At_ffu2Fuic55SDpOokS3AOvBUc/edit#bookmark=id.ceef3790c8d6)**
      - Deborah has gotten back to us with specific information on what
        budget specifics she needs.
      - I am in the process of putting this together for her.

<!-- end list -->

  - **[Atlassian Open Source
    License](https://docs.google.com/a/owasp.org/document/d/1f83ShmjwLpmybSVJIBhEXDxTrKuNcIPO3ok0ubAs4t8/edit)**
      - Atlassian PM Community Licence Application: We had to re-apply
        for a different license with Atlassian.
      - The application has now been submitted.
      - We have a 14 day wait for the results.

## Projects Communication Structure Development Update

1.  I continue to work on the tabs structure on my local machine.
2.  I am still currently organizing the documentation.

## AppSec Ireland

1.  [Post Conference
    Report](https://docs.google.com/a/owasp.org/document/d/1PqUVwDc3ceVqI1Ed-9SUNfPoidb_FWJ9SO7DPUHjgzo/edit)
2.  [AppSec Ireland 2012 Event
    Images](https://plus.google.com/photos/112524813831026679099/albums/5786270713527598369)

## Important Meeting Outcomes and Discussion Points

1.  We need to clarify who the GPC committee chair will be.
2.  Discussion on the availability of all members.
3.  Propose a shorter term GPC member volunteer schedule.
4.  One of our PLs has submitted a $6K reimbursement.
5.  Need a head count of who is going to AppSec USA.

[Category:GPC_Meetings](Category:GPC_Meetings "wikilink")
[Category:GPC_Meetings/2011](Category:GPC_Meetings/2011 "wikilink")