__TOC__

# Agenda

  - **OWASP Project Manager Updates**
      - [August 2012 Board PM
        Report](https://www.owasp.org/index.php/OWASP_Project_Manager_Activity_Reports/August_13_2012)

<!-- end list -->

  - **Projects Set Up**
      - [OWASP Java J2EE Secure Development
        Curriculum](OWASP_Java_J2EE_Secure_Development_Curriculum "wikilink")
      - [OWASP AW00T](OWASP_AW00T "wikilink")
      - [OWASP Passfault](OWASP_Passfault "wikilink")
      - [OWASP OctoMS](OWASP_OctoMS "wikilink")
      - [OWASP OWTF](OWASP_OWTF "wikilink")
      - [OWASP Java Uncertain Form Submit
        Prevention](OWASP_Java_Uncertain_Form_Submit_Prevention "wikilink")
      - [OWASP Ecuador](OWASP_Ecuador "wikilink")
      - [OWASP Path Traverser](OWASP_Path_Traverser "wikilink")
      - [OWASP Watiqay](OWASP_Watiqay "wikilink")
      - [OWASP Mantra OS](OWASP_Mantra_OS "wikilink")
      - [OWASP Security Shepherd](OWASP_Security_Shepherd "wikilink")
      - [OWASP Xenotix XSS Exploit
        Framework](OWASP_Xenotix_XSS_Exploit_Framework "wikilink")

<!-- end list -->

  - **Currently Working On**
      - Projects Communications Restructuring: See Below.
      - Daily Project based queries and requests
      - [AppSec USA
        OSS](https://docs.google.com/a/owasp.org/document/d/1xek9eZqAAt-koEuhOcXE9PoVCsAZ1WZJJoLzVMVj2Ew/edit)
      - [OWASP ZAP Project Marketing
        Recommendations](https://docs.google.com/a/owasp.org/document/d/13jWO7jFfe9NUVlGIddZRrnLA8G5IOTNPjogb61lbbB0/edit)
      - [DHS Host Project Funding
        Proposal](https://docs.google.com/a/owasp.org/document/d/1MA3TI5ssclxvheV8At_ffu2Fuic55SDpOokS3AOvBUc/edit#bookmark=id.ceef3790c8d6)
      - [OWASP Grant
        Recommendations](https://docs.google.com/a/owasp.org/document/d/12Pn191CMKzrv1M7H2xtqIAN9VKRSGPfG7VkztCugDWU/edit)

<!-- end list -->

  - **Current Projects Communications/Documents**
      - [Projects
        Hanbook](https://docs.google.com/a/owasp.org/document/pub?id=1ilLGVEM4zWiPgMPDRHe8ARdeLSnoBTUtMq0C-Ta45tc&ndplr=1)
      - [Projects
        Dashboard 2.0](https://www.owasp.org/index.php/OWASP_Projects_Dashboard_2.0)
      - [OWASP Global Feedback and Inquiry
        Form](https://docs.google.com/a/owasp.org/spreadsheet/ccc?key=0AhtB029bdcxGdFN1R2NIMTNROXN3dml4ZEcxXzJQYXc#gid=0)
      - [OWASP Projects Home
        Page](https://www.owasp.org/index.php/Category:OWASP_Project)
      - [Projects Inventory: What are these non-projects doing in this
        document?](https://docs.google.com/a/owasp.org/spreadsheet/ccc?key=0Amvv_7Gz8Z7TdEY5cjQ1ZXByYnBkWTZ4dVNid0V1TXc&pli=1#gid=0)
      - [OWASP Reviews Dashboards: How does one apply for
        review?](https://www.owasp.org/index.php/OWASP_Reviews_Dashboard)
      - [Project Reviewers
        Database](https://www.owasp.org/index.php/OWASP_Project_Reviewers_Database)
      - [OWASP Projects Dashboard 2.0/ Set up
        Order](https://www.owasp.org/index.php/OWASP_Projects_Dashboard_2.0/By_Set_Up_Order)
      - [OWASP Training: Promote awareness of
        projects](https://www.owasp.org/index.php/OWASP_Training)
      - [OWASP Projects
        FAQ](https://docs.google.com/a/owasp.org/document/d/1Od_6wu8H1fiWlLN9A86NXxQvE1eiEmn4Pp58Y4sbuyI/edit#heading=h.8jvfxkx0l2we)

<!-- end list -->

  - **My Recommendations for a Projects Communication Structure**
  - [This is what I want it to resemble
    visually.](https://www.owasp.org/index.php/AppSecLatam2012)
  - [Organisation of Project
    Information](https://www.owasp.org/images/d/d5/Projects_Communication_Organisation.jpg)

<!-- end list -->

  - **Current Project Lifecycle, Reviews and Community Concerns**
      - Needs streamlining: Concerns over unclear process
      - Lost a project due to complexity of process graduation process
          - “overly complicated, too many reviewers, frustrating” -
            OWASP Volunteers
      - Process Forms? Where are they? Ex. Project Donation Form. Where
        is Project’s Portal?

<!-- end list -->

  - **PM Inquiries to the Committee**
      - Proposal for Next Primary Goal: Organisation and updating of
        Projects information/communication
      - Proposal for Third Primary Goal: organise/structure/create
        project review process
      - Is this what you are looking for in terms of organisation of
        information
      - Shall we update current pages to reflect the current project
        lifecycle and assessment criteria that has already been agreed
        to with the understanding that it shall be streamlined in the
        future?

## Attendees

  - Samantha Groves (OWASP Project Manager)
  - Justin Searle (Committee Member)
  - Keith Turpin (Committee Member)

## Decisions

1.  We will have weekly meetings to discuss updates on projects issues.
    The meetings will be every Friday at 2pm GMT.
2.  Communications structure has been agreed upon. We will organise our
    projects communication through the use of Tabs in the OWASP Projects
    section of the wiki.
3.  Agreement has been made to finish the OWASP Projects Handbook
4.  Committee must re-evaluate the project lifecycle procedure
5.  All of the Projects documentation must either be updated or created
    and organised in the correct locations on the wiki. Changes should
    be agreed upon by the committee before they are made live to the
    community.

## Action Items

1.  Jason Li and Samantha will meet next week, Tues 28th August 2012, to
    discuss items in more detail.
2.  Justin will work on the Project's Handbook before our next GPC
    meeting
3.  Samantha will add Project Lifecycle recommendations before our next
    GPC meeting
4.  Find out what is Jason's availability to participate in the GPC
5.  What is the availability of other GPC members?

[Category:GPC_Meetings](Category:GPC_Meetings "wikilink")
[Category:GPC_Meetings/2011](Category:GPC_Meetings/2011 "wikilink")