__TOC__

# Project Division Updates

  - **[Project
    Numbers](https://docs.google.com/a/owasp.org/spreadsheet/ccc?key=0AllOCxlYdf1AdFdaYXJ6SDFXNXBaemNwbnNHN3N5RVE#gid=16)**
      - Active Projects: 122
      - Inactive Projects: 67

<!-- end list -->

  - **[Pending Project
    Applications](https://docs.google.com/a/owasp.org/spreadsheet/ccc?key=0Amvv_7Gz8Z7TdHZfWGhHZ0Z4UFFwZU42djBXcVVLSlE#gid=0)**
      - None

## Currently Working On

  - **SourceForge Update**
      - Audrey has replied.
      - She has now received payment.
      - Our business with Geeknet is now closed.

<!-- end list -->

  - **AppSec APAC 2013: Planning**
      - I have now closed down the 'Call for Entries' for the OWASP
        Project Track (OPT).
      - We received two applicants for the OPT.
      - We are in the process of sorting out logistics for these
        potential speakers.

<!-- end list -->

  - **New Project Web Page**
      - The new [Project
        Page](https://www.owasp.org/index.php/Test2test) design is now
        complete.
      - Please review the page, and note down any comments, changes,
        etc.
      - I plan to make this live towards the beginning of January.
      - Viewers have mentioned that there are perhaps too many tabs.
        What are your thoughts on this?

<!-- end list -->

  - **Assessment Criteria, Lifecycle, and Graduation Processes**
      - I have not received feedback since the last GPC meeting.
      - Please review when you get the opportunity, and provide
        feedback.
      - If there is no feedback, I will assume that the proposal has no
        objections.

<!-- end list -->

  - **Daily Project based queries and requests**
      - This has not changed much since I began the post: questions are
        very similar in nature.
      - Global AppSec questions.
      - Funding queries.
      - Travel availability.
      - Project based administrative help.
      - Project status information.
      - Several project donations questions.
      - OWASP LinkedIn Updates.
      - What's happening with projects, questions.

## More Funding Potential

1.  Guidebooks Grant Payment: We are still waiting to hear back from Deb
    regarding payment.
2.  Grant writing has now begun for the ModSecurity Proposal.

[Category:GPC_Meetings](Category:GPC_Meetings "wikilink")
[Category:GPC_Meetings/2012](Category:GPC_Meetings/2012 "wikilink")