__TOC__

# Project Division Updates

  - **Project Numbers**
      - Active Projects: 112
      - Archived Projects: 41
      - Graveyard Projects: 24
      - Merged Projects: 43

<!-- end list -->

  - **Pending Project Donations**
      - [OWASP XSSER](OWASP_XSSER "wikilink")
      - OWASP XSS Cheat Sheet
      - [OWASP Security Shepherd](OWASP_Security_Shepherd "wikilink")

<!-- end list -->

  - **Pending New Project Leader Appointment**
      - [OWASP Stinger project](OWASP_Stinger_project "wikilink")

## Currently Working On

  - **[Projects Communications
    Restructuring](https://www.owasp.org/index.php/Test2test)**
      - Finishing this has become one of my Q4 Objectives
      - I continue to update this every week in addition to my other
        project management duties
      - [Projects Implementation
        Plan](https://docs.google.com/a/owasp.org/document/d/1dN-6GrwN-FB3Im0Ggj5dlVmxZNLs0IUigQegP1eSd8Q/edit#)

<!-- end list -->

  - **Daily Project based queries and requests**
      - This has not changed much since I began the post: questions are
        very similar in nature.
      - AppSec USA 2012 queries
      - Travel queries
      - Budget based questions
      - Funding questions
      - Project based administrative help
      - Project status information
      - Information request from outside the community regarding
        projects

<!-- end list -->

  - **[AppSec USA
    OSS](https://docs.google.com/a/owasp.org/document/d/1xek9eZqAAt-koEuhOcXE9PoVCsAZ1WZJJoLzVMVj2Ew/edit)**
      - All 6 attendees have confirmed.
      - Greg has agreed to our terms: We pay for his airfare if he
        agrees to participate as a volunteer at the conference.
      - Travel requirements for Kostas have changed. He is still going
        to participate in the OSS, but now his airfare and hotel
        expenses will be paid by the OWASP Track Fund as he is now a
        speaker.
      - [Presentation
        Schedule](https://docs.google.com/a/owasp.org/document/d/1urkb-k3zHCfcS_8TLFgQaEv95Yr6gNXmLElDFHeEgM4/edit)

<!-- end list -->

  - **[DHS Host Project Funding
    Proposal](https://docs.google.com/a/owasp.org/document/d/1MA3TI5ssclxvheV8At_ffu2Fuic55SDpOokS3AOvBUc/edit#bookmark=id.ceef3790c8d6)**
      - Our DHS Funding Proposal has been approved\!
      - We were awarded with $25K for this project.
      - We are waiting for the agreement contract from Deborah, DHS
        Representative.

## More Funding Potential

1.  [OWASP ESAPI FUNDING
    PROPOSAL](https://docs.google.com/a/owasp.org/document/d/16ZFXaML8C7aDAZdyTMDDg4BzLr1vUTOz9eqmYE8ZW8U/edit)
2.  DHS has expressed interest in funding the OWASP ESAPI Project.
3.  I need help filling out the details of the funding proposal
    document.

## Important Meeting Discussion Points

1.  How are we handling the Project Handbook workload?
2.  OWASP ESAPI: Trying to get funding for this project.
3.  Chris, can you elaborate on the Reboot deliverable for ESAPI?
4.  Chris, will you have the time to lead this project through to
    completion?
5.  [Project Donation License
    Agreement](https://docs.google.com/a/owasp.org/document/d/1-BXoHC72nupnOu9PHFSVM9kqM8KX_7xiY3O0SBXFvGo/edit):
    Please have a look and let me know if there are any objections to
    its use.

[Category:GPC_Meetings](Category:GPC_Meetings "wikilink")
[Category:GPC_Meetings/2012](Category:GPC_Meetings/2012 "wikilink")