__TOC__

# Project Division Updates

  - **[Project
    Numbers](https://docs.google.com/a/owasp.org/spreadsheet/ccc?key=0AllOCxlYdf1AdFdaYXJ6SDFXNXBaemNwbnNHN3N5RVE#gid=16)**
      - Active Projects: 121
      - Inactive Projects: 67

<!-- end list -->

  - **[Pending Project
    Applications](https://docs.google.com/a/owasp.org/spreadsheet/ccc?key=0Amvv_7Gz8Z7TdHZfWGhHZ0Z4UFFwZU42djBXcVVLSlE#gid=0)**
      - O-Saft

## Currently Working On

  - **SourceForge Update**
      - Audrey has replied.
      - She has not received payment.
      - I confirmed with Alison that payment was made in the beginning
        of December.
      - I have sent Audrey the payment details, and I am waiting to hear
        back from her now.
      - Our account with SourceForge is now closed.

<!-- end list -->

  - **OWASP Licenses Update**
      - This is the final draft of the letter:
        [Letter.](https://docs.google.com/a/owasp.org/document/d/1n3xEFUfUqd2qJ2udRn3itKtDMBnOYA9dvsIGAnFIEZM/edit)
      - Dr. Gottlieb has responded with a change in license. I have made
        the necessary changes on our records.
      - The other two project leaders have not responded.
      - I will reach out to them before the day ends.

<!-- end list -->

  - **AppSec APAC 2013: Planning**
      - I have now closed down the 'Call for Entries' for the Open
        Source Showcase.
      - We received no applicants for the OSS.
      - The Project Track has 4 interested applicants.
      - We are in the process of sorting out logistics for these
        potential speakers.

<!-- end list -->

  - **CTF at our Global AppSec Conferences**
      - I spoke with Steven van der Baan about developing a CTF event
        module for OWASP AppSec Conferences.
      - We agreed that South Korea would have to pass for this year, but
        that we should aim for having CTF at AppSec USA, Europe, and
        Latin America.
      - Steven can get time off for USA and Europe.
      - Steven will need funding for hotel and travel expenses. (I will
        check with the foundation to see if we can do this).
      - The CTF module is scalable and Steven agreed to help us teach
        other volunteers how to run the event if he can't make it.
      - There is a possibility we can combine the University Challenge
        module with CTF. I will touch base with Martin after the
        holidays to see if this is possible.
      - Next Steps: We will begin developing a way to teach back up
        volunteers how to run CTF Steven's absence.

<!-- end list -->

  - **New Project Web Page**
      - The new Project Page design is now complete.
      - Please review the page, and note down any comments, changes,
        etc.
      - I plan to make this live towards the beginning of January.

<!-- end list -->

  - **Assessment Criteria, Lifecycle, and Graduation Processes**
      - I have not received feedback since the last GPC meeting.
      - Please review when you get the opportunity, and provide
        feedback.
      - If there is no feedback, I will assume that the proposal has no
        objections.

<!-- end list -->

  - **Daily Project based queries and requests**
      - This has not changed much since I began the post: questions are
        very similar in nature.
      - Global AppSec questions.
      - Funding queries.
      - Travel availability.
      - Project based administrative help.
      - Project status information.
      - Several project donations questions.
      - OWASP LinkedIn Updates.
      - What's happening with projects, questions.

## More Funding Potential

1.  Guidebooks Grant Payment: We are still waiting to hear back from Deb
    regarding payment.
2.  ESAPI Grant Proposal: The proposal has passed the first round of
    reviews. It is now at the peer review stage with 6 other
    applications. I suspect we will hear back from the DHS after the
    holidays.
3.  Ryan and I have agreed on a project plan for the ModSecurity
    Project.
4.  I have begun the grant writing process.
5.  This will be for a $30,000 grant proposal.

## Attendees

  - Meeting is cancelled today as most of us are already on holiday.

[Category:GPC_Meetings](Category:GPC_Meetings "wikilink")
[Category:GPC_Meetings/2012](Category:GPC_Meetings/2012 "wikilink")