__TOC__

# Project Division Updates

  - **Pending Projects Set Up**
      - TestingTheWeb: Waiting for the 5 day waiting time to run out.
        Then I will set it up.
      - OWASP University Challenge: Waiting for information.
      - OWASP Hacking-Lab Project: Waiting for information.

<!-- end list -->

  - **Pending Project Confirmations**
      - Forensic Guide: Waiting to hear back from the Project Leader.
      - Xelenium: Waiting to hear back from the Project Leader.
      - Intelligent Security: Waiting to hear back from the Project
        Leader.

<!-- end list -->

  - **Pending Project Donations**
      - [OWASP XSSER](OWASP_XSSER "wikilink")
      - OWASP XSS Cheat Sheet
      - [OWASP Security Shepherd](OWASP_Security_Shepherd "wikilink")

<!-- end list -->

  - **Pending New Project Leader Appointment**
      - [OWASP Stinger project](OWASP_Stinger_project "wikilink")

<!-- end list -->

  - **Inquiries to the Committee**
      - What is the project donation process? Keith can you elaborate on
        it?
      - I have a volunteer wanting to take over a project that is
        inactive. We cannot get hold of the previous PL? What is the
        process to change leaders, if any?

## Currently Working On

  - **[Projects Communications
    Restructuring](https://www.owasp.org/index.php/Test2test)**
      - I have created the Projects wiki page using our wiki as we were
        not able to re-create the tabs on my machine
      - I have created a placeholder logo, and I am currently working on
        organising information using our tab structure
      - [Projects Implementation
        Plan](https://docs.google.com/a/owasp.org/document/d/1dN-6GrwN-FB3Im0Ggj5dlVmxZNLs0IUigQegP1eSd8Q/edit#)

<!-- end list -->

  - **Daily Project based queries and requests**
      - How to get marketing aid: Business Cards
      - AppSec USA 2012 queries
      - Travel queries
      - Budget based questions
      - Funding questions
      - Project based administrative help
      - Project status information
      - Information request from outside the community regarding
        projects

<!-- end list -->

  - **[AppSec USA
    OSS](https://docs.google.com/a/owasp.org/document/d/1xek9eZqAAt-koEuhOcXE9PoVCsAZ1WZJJoLzVMVj2Ew/edit)**
      - We currently have 3 confirmed attendees
      - We currently have 2 pending travel funding requests: Can we
        decide yes or no today so I can action this immediately?

<!-- end list -->

  - **[OWASP ZAP Project Marketing
    Plan](https://docs.google.com/a/owasp.org/document/d/17lUJirJviEh3P-5QBcaLZnVwiniNfJORfW8Rba3-pZo/edit)**
      - The ZAP Marketing Project Plan has been created and agreed upon
      - We made minor adjustments to the plan based on changes in
        availability and budget
      - Simon and I have met and are busy implementing our plan. Please
        see document for more details.

<!-- end list -->

  - **[DHS Host Project Funding
    Proposal](https://docs.google.com/a/owasp.org/document/d/1MA3TI5ssclxvheV8At_ffu2Fuic55SDpOokS3AOvBUc/edit#bookmark=id.ceef3790c8d6)**
      - I have completed and sent off the updated budget for our DHS
        Funding proposal
      - Deborah has accepted it, and after a few rounds of questioning,
        we have now finalised our submission
      - We hope to hear back from Deborah with the DHS decision sometime
        next week

<!-- end list -->

  - **[Atlassian Open Source
    License](https://docs.google.com/a/owasp.org/document/d/1f83ShmjwLpmybSVJIBhEXDxTrKuNcIPO3ok0ubAs4t8/edit)**
      - Our Atlassian PM Community Licence Application has been
        accepted, and we now have full access to the software
      - The interested parties have been given their login information,
        and they are currently in the process of setting it up
      - All of OWASP now has access to this software for our projects

## Events Management

1.  [Events Management Task
    List](https://docs.google.com/a/owasp.org/document/d/1IY8-kygJYGrrfFwx2ySKB2IJzyXDa5YthdG4tgaNRbc/edit)
2.  Document put together based on my past experience in events
    management, and my experience at AppSec Ireland
3.  Aim is to help new events managers understand how to break down
    event planning in an easy to understand way

## Important Meeting Discussion Points

1.  Discussion on the availability of all members.
2.  Need a head count of who is going to AppSec USA.
3.  I must have a concrete voting decision on what to do about funding
    travel for Kostas and Greg.

## Important Meeting Outcomes

1.  Leadership Transfer of OWASP Stinger Project: Will contact Eric and
    Jim from White Hat Security to get access to Code Repository.
2.  Jason will remain chair of the committee for the next month. We will
    discuss his availability once again after November 21, 2012.
3.  We have decided on what to do about the funding request. Kostas will
    get full funding. Greg will get approx. $435 which will cover his
    airfare, and we will request that he work the conference for the two
    days he is there.
4.  Samantha will draft up the funding acceptance letters, and send it
    to the committee for review. If there is no response, then Sam will
    send the letters to Kostas and Greg. Then Sam will inform the other
    committees of the GPCs decision.
5.  Project Donations: Keith has sent over 2 documents that were
    previously used to donate a project. We will review these before any
    action is taken.
6.  Major Task: Must begin working on Project Handbook.
7.  We are continuing to meet weekly with Samantha creating weekly PM
    reports
8.  Samantha will contact Mark from SourceForge to see what are account
    situation is. Samantha will touch base with Alison to confirm what
    our budget is.
9.  Decision: When a vote is required to reach a decision, the committee
    has decided that those on the call will represent the voting points
    used in that decision. Each committee member present will have one
    vote.
10. Next meeting will be Friday, 28th of September 2012: Time will be
    decided by a Doodle Poll

[Category:GPC_Meetings](Category:GPC_Meetings "wikilink")
[Category:GPC_Meetings/2011](Category:GPC_Meetings/2011 "wikilink")