__TOC__

# Project Division Updates

  - **Project Numbers**
      - Active Projects: 117
      - Archived Projects: 41
      - Merged Projects: 43

## Currently Working On

  - **Projects at AppSec APAC 2013: Jeju, South Korea**
      - Sarah and I have been working together to develop the Projects
        Module for our Global AppSec Conferences.
      - We decided that we should try to bring the Open Source Showcase
        and the OWASP Project Track initiatives to all four Global
        AppSec Conferences.
      - The Call for Entries forms have been developed and launched this
        week.
      - [Blog
        Announcement](http://owasp.blogspot.co.uk/2012/11/owasp-appsec-apac-2013-call-for-entries.html)
      - [Open Source Showcase
        Announcement](https://docs.google.com/a/owasp.org/spreadsheet/viewform?formkey=dDUzVmFwclRYdEdhTWRaSWhEb1VNcEE6MA#gid=0)
      - [OWASP Project Track
        Announcement](https://docs.google.com/a/owasp.org/spreadsheet/viewform?formkey=dGZYWHhydVNSRF9kUUE5VTRPa09sbUE6MA#gid=0)
      - We are in the process of getting the forms translated into
        Korean.

<!-- end list -->

  - **SourceForge Update**
      - I have not heard anything from SourceForge.
      - Samantha drafted a response to the Geeknet Team, outlining our
        options.
      - Option 1: OWASP would like to propose that Geeknet waive either
        all or a percentage of the invoice fee, and redistribute the
        funds as a donation to the OWASP Foundation.
      - Option 2: OWASP would like to propose a 1 year corporate
        membership, and a 6 month online rotating banner advertisement
        in exchange for $10,000 being deduction from the Invoice in
        question. Total value: $17,500 in OWASP Services.

<!-- end list -->

  - **Project Support Volunteer Role Development**
      - This role was developed to help the 3 Guidebook projects with
        project support duties.
      - Please see the [Volunteer Job
        Descriptions](http://owasp.force.com/volunteers/GW_Volunteers__VolunteersJobListing)
        for more details.
      - We are looking for 3 separate volunteers that will be
        responsible for the same role.
      - Each volunteer will be responsible for project support duties
        for one project.
      - We sent out the announcement for volunteers through the OWASP
        Connect E-Newsletter.
      - We have 7 applicants so far.

<!-- end list -->

  - **OWASP Licenses Update**
      - I drafted the e-mail Justin asked me to put together regarding
        the three projects with non open source licenses.
      - I have sent it to all GPC members.
      - Please have a read and let me know if you would like to alter
        the message in any way.
      - [Starting a
        Project](https://www.owasp.org/index.php/How_to_Start_an_OWASP_Project)
      - [Project
        Licensing](https://www.owasp.org/index.php/Guidelines_for_OWASP_Projects#Project_Licensing)
      - [OWASP Licenses](https://www.owasp.org/index.php/OWASP_Licenses)
      - Lets discuss how we want to handle this.

<!-- end list -->

  - **Salesforce Data Migration**
      - Kate and I continue to work on this initiative.
      - We have completed migrating all of the information into the
        platform.
      - We have a handfull of new projects that need to be brought into
        Salesforce.
      - Kate has create a template e-mail that will ask all project
        leaders to update their information.
      - We plan on sending it out next week in stages: Flagships, Labs,
        Incubators.

<!-- end list -->

  - **Daily Project based queries and requests**
      - This has not changed much since I began the post: questions are
        very similar in nature.
      - Global AppSec questions.
      - Funding queries.
      - Travel availability.
      - Project based administrative help.
      - Project status information.
      - Several project donations questions.
      - OWASP LinkedIn Updates.
      - What's happening with projects, questions.

## More Funding Potential

1.  Guidebooks Grant Payment: Deb is in the process of delivering the
    correct tax forms.
2.  ESAPI Grant Proposal: Still waiting to hear back from Deb.
3.  Google Grants Application is complete and Submitted.
4.  We are set to hear back from the Google Grants team by the beginning
    of 2013.
5.  We have now begun the process of grant writing for the ModSecurity
    Project.
6.  Ryan has completed his project plan for the ModSecurity Project.
7.  This will be for a $30,000 grant proposal for the DHS.

## Attendees

1.  Samantha Groves
2.  Nishi Kumar
3.  Keith Turpin

## Announcements

1.  Meeting canceled today as Nishi and Keith were the only ones besides
    me who attended, and we were having connectivity issues.
2.  Google Grants Proposal has been submitted.
3.  ModSecurity Proposal grant writing has begun.
4.  SourceForge: Have not heard back from Geeknet Representatives. I
    have reached out to them this week. Will try again next week.
5.  AppSec APAC 2013: Call for Entries for the Open Source Showcase &
    OWASP Projects Track has been launched.
6.  Part-Time Project Support Volunteer Role for Guidebook Projects: We
    now have 7 applicants for the role. I am currently managing the
    applications.
7.  We have a speaking opportunity at FOSDEM. Simon Bennetts is
    presenting ZAP. I am applying for an OWASP stand.
8.  Nishi: Thank you for putting together the [AppSec USA 2012
    Conference presentations](http://videos.2012.appsecusa.org/) for us.
    They look great\!

[Category:GPC_Meetings](Category:GPC_Meetings "wikilink")
[Category:GPC_Meetings/2012](Category:GPC_Meetings/2012 "wikilink")