__TOC__

# Project Division Updates

  - **Project Numbers**
      - Active Projects: 113
      - Archived Projects: 41
      - Merged Projects: 43 (I've looked through these, and it seems
        like we really don't need to track them individually anymore.
        Shall I get rid of these as well? Thoughts?)

<!-- end list -->

  - **Pending Project Donations**:
      - [OWASP XSSER](OWASP_XSSER "wikilink") Partnership.
      - OWASP Top Ten eLearning Module: Partnership.
      - OWASP XSS Cheat Sheet: Needs contract.
      - [OWASP Security Shepherd](OWASP_Security_Shepherd "wikilink")
        Needs contract.

<!-- end list -->

  - **Pending Incubator Project Applications**:
      - OWASP Periodic Table

## Currently Working On

  - **AppSec USA**
      - Spent last week in Austin, Texas at AppSec USA: From Monday
        through Sunday.
      - Took care of the logistics for the OSS presenters: Set up their
        booths, printed and designed their signs, set up monitors and
        power cords, arranged for them to have food, water, notepads,
        etc.
      - Hoping to bring OSS to all four OWASP Global Conferences in 2013
        on a larger scale.
      - Attended in-person board meeting.
      - I was one of the conference photographers.
      - Attended chapter leader workshop: Hoping to do something similar
        for Project Leaders.
      - Attended 5 Hour in-person staff meeting.
      - Had dinner with Nishi and Keith: Thank you, guys.
      - Volunteered to bartend, and won 2nd place in the armadillo
        races. :)
      - Misc. logistics support for the conference.

<!-- end list -->

  - **Salesforce Metadata Migration**
      - All project data is now in Salesforce.
      - I continue to work with Kate to finish the migration.
      - We are currently working on creating a template e-mail to send
        to all active project leaders asking them to update their
        information.

<!-- end list -->

  - **Project Promotion Events**
      - Simon Bennetts and Jim Manico have registered to give talks at
        FOSDEM.
      - [FOSDEM: Free and Open Source Developers' European
        Meeting](https://fosdem.org/2013/).
      - Date: February 2nd -3rd.
      - If their applications are successful, they will have a great
        opportunity to promote their projects.
      - Simon is promoting ZAP.
      - Jim will be promoting OWASP Projects in general, and using
        several Reboot 2012 projects as examples of success stories.
      - Main track speakers get costs covered.

<!-- end list -->

  - **SourceForge Update**
      - The sales people finally got back to me.
      - Evidently, we owe them $12,000.
      - Here is the
        [Invoice.](https://www.owasp.org/images/7/71/OWASP_Invoice_October_2012.pdf)
      - Here is the [letter regarding the recent purchase of the Media
        Division of
        Geeknet.](https://www.owasp.org/images/c/c8/Dice_Letter.pdf)
      - We need to discuss what we are going to do with this.
      - Moreover, we need to discuss how to close this account, and how
        we are going to migrate existing OWASP users to a different
        platform.

<!-- end list -->

  - **[Projects
    Handbook](https://docs.google.com/a/owasp.org/document/d/1MpZx5w4TaqS-FoQaEXDhncz6dhG4mdgC4id2HsJQhjc/edit#)**
      - I have made more edits to the new Handbook.
      - I have added an Appendix.
      - The Project Donation agreement is finalised.
      - Flagship Projects: I think I should keep a section in here that
        describes what flagship projects are, but note that this
        designation is given by The Foundation? Thoughts?
      - Project Release Review Criteria: I need a bit of help to come up
        with the technical qualifying criteria for each project category
        for their reviews.
      - Let's discuss this today, and I can explain the reasoning behind
        my idea.

<!-- end list -->

  - **Daily Project based queries and requests**
      - This has not changed much since I began the post: questions are
        very similar in nature.
      - AppSec USA 2012 queries
      - Travel queries
      - Budget based questions
      - Funding questions
      - Project based administrative help
      - Project status information
      - Several project donations questions
      - OWASP LinkedIn Updates

## More Funding Potential

1.  [OWASP ESAPI FUNDING
    PROPOSAL](https://docs.google.com/a/owasp.org/document/d/16ZFXaML8C7aDAZdyTMDDg4BzLr1vUTOz9eqmYE8ZW8U/edit)
2.  The ESAPI proposal is done: Thank you Jim Manico and Kevin Wall for
    finalising the technical questions.
3.  I am submitting this proposal come Monday.
4.  This is for $25,000 from the DHS.
5.  I have begun the application for our Google Grant.
6.  If we are successful with the Google Grant, we will be awarded
    $10,000 a month for use in a Google Adwords Campaign.
7.  We potentially have another project for 2013 that we may get a much
    larger grant for from the DHS. (Yet to be determined)
8.  DHS wants further involvement with OWASP with funding. (I have
    contacted Kevin Greene from DHS to set up a meeting. I am waiting to
    hear back).
9.  Thank you Matt Tesauro for putting Kevin and I together.

## Attendees

1.  Samantha Groves
2.  Kate Hartmann
3.  Jason Li
4.  Nishi Kumar
5.  Keith Turpin

## Primary Outcomes and Decisions

1.  Jason: Find the final version of the contract with SourceForge, and
    send to all GPC members.
2.  Jason: Locate the e-mail exchange between SourceForge and GPC that
    includes their inability to meet our project feedback standards.
3.  Samantha: Touch base with the SourceForge account people, and
    attempt to schedule a meeting with them next week.
4.  We have decided to end the contract with SourceForge after we sort
    out the invoice next week.
5.  Develop a communications piece letting the community know why the
    account with SourceForge was closed.
6.  Samantha: Send Kate a list of accounts created under OWASP's name in
    the Google Grants website.
7.  Samantha: Send an updated list of the Project Lifecycle process
    stages to GPC.
8.  GPC: Look through new Projects Handbook, and note down any
    questions, concerns or objections before our next meeting.
9.  Goal: Get the handbook and project processes finished by the 1st of
    January.

[Category:GPC_Meetings](Category:GPC_Meetings "wikilink")
[Category:GPC_Meetings/2012](Category:GPC_Meetings/2012 "wikilink")