__TOC__

# Project Division Updates

  - **[Project
    Numbers](https://docs.google.com/a/owasp.org/spreadsheet/ccc?key=0AllOCxlYdf1AdFdaYXJ6SDFXNXBaemNwbnNHN3N5RVE#gid=16)**
      - Active Projects: 139
      - Inactive Projects: 67

<!-- end list -->

  - **Projects Under Review**
      - [OWASP Cheat Sheets
        Project](https://www.owasp.org/index.php/Cheat_Sheets)
      - [OWASP Java HTML Sanitizer
        Project](https://www.owasp.org/index.php/OWASP_Java_HTML_Sanitizer_Project)
      - [OWASP Codes of
        Conduct](https://www.owasp.org/index.php/OWASP_Codes_of_Conduct)
      - [Xenotix XSS Exploit
        Framework](https://www.owasp.org/index.php/OWASP_Xenotix_XSS_Exploit_Framework)

<!-- end list -->

  - **[Project
    Applications](https://docs.google.com/a/owasp.org/spreadsheet/ccc?key=0Amvv_7Gz8Z7TdHZfWGhHZ0Z4UFFwZU42djBXcVVLSlE#gid=0)**
      - OWASP Top 10 fuer Entwickler

## Currently Working On

  - **Black Hat EU 2013**
      - I attended the Black Hat EU conference this week.
      - I helped set up and manage our OWASP Booth for two days.
      - I was also able to attend the Netherlands Chapter meeting.
      - Martin Knobloch, Dennis Groves, and Anil Pazvant volunteered at
        the event as well.
      - For more details, please read my [Black Hat EU 2013 Post
        Conference
        Report.](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1ghKPMKla3Ol1hhoCZWOhAgdnInRNmZr_7D1A6CULKyc/edit?usp=sharing)

<!-- end list -->

  - **OWASP University Challenge & CTF at Global AppSecs**
      - Martin Knobloch and I were able to meet and talk about how to
        bring University Challenge and the Capture the Flag event
        modules to AppSec EU Research, USA, and Latam.
      - There were some concerns over space availability for these event
        modules.
      - We proposed having the OSS, CTF, and University Challenge event
        modules share a room.
      - We are waiting to hear back from Dirk regarding logistics.

<!-- end list -->

  - **OWASP at Hack in the Box: Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia**
      - I had the fantastic opportunity to meet with the CEO of Hack in
        the Box, Mr. Dhillon Kannabhiran.
      - We spoke about a possible partnership between OWASP and Hack in
        the Box.
      - We currently have a booth for the Amsterdam event, and I
        negotiated a booth for us at the Kuala Lumpar, Malaysia event as
        well.
      - Logistics are currently being developed and planned.

<!-- end list -->

  - **OWASP Asia Leadership Outreach Project**
      - This Asia Leadership Outreach Project came about during the
        discussion Dhillon and I had about OWASP at the Kuala Lumpar,
        Hack in the Box event.
      - He mentioned that he has offered OWASP a booth at the Kuala
        Lumpar, Hack in the Box event for a few years.
      - However, the local OWASP chapter volunteers have not been able
        to represent OWASP very well at his conference.
      - We suggested developing an OWASP Malaysia and Singapore outreach
        project that would involve a workshop, and the co-running of the
        Hack in the Box booth by members of both chapters.
      - Dhillon agreed that developing a workshop with more experienced
        leaders giving primary direction, will help the Malaysian and
        Singaporean chapters understand their responsibilities at
        similar outreach events.
      - I am currently putting together a proposal for this project.

<!-- end list -->

  - **Daily Project based queries and requests**
      - This has not changed much since I began the post: questions are
        very similar in nature.
      - Global AppSec questions.
      - Funding queries.
      - Travel availability.
      - Project based administrative help.
      - Project status information.
      - Several project donations questions.
      - OWASP LinkedIn Updates.
      - What's happening with projects, questions.

## Grants Updates

  - **Guidebooks Grant**

<!-- end list -->

1.  Amount: $25,000
2.  Status: We are still waiting for payment from DHS.

<!-- end list -->

  - **ESAPI Proposal**

<!-- end list -->

1.  Amount: $25,000
2.  Status: The ESAPI proposal is still being reviewed.

<!-- end list -->

  - **ModSecurity Grant Writing**

<!-- end list -->

1.  Amount: $30,000
2.  Status: The ModSecurity proposal is still being reviewed.

<!-- end list -->

  - **Google Grants Proposal**

<!-- end list -->

1.  Amount: $120,00 in Adwords Funds
2.  Status: I have begun managing the Adwords account regularly. I am
    waiting until we reach the implementation phase with our marketing
    company.

<!-- end list -->

  - **Total Grant Funds Awarded: $145,000 for 2013.**

[Category:GPC_Meetings](Category:GPC_Meetings "wikilink")
[Category:GPC_Meetings/2013](Category:GPC_Meetings/2013 "wikilink")