__TOC__

# Project Division Updates

  - **[Project
    Numbers](https://docs.google.com/a/owasp.org/spreadsheet/ccc?key=0AllOCxlYdf1AdFdaYXJ6SDFXNXBaemNwbnNHN3N5RVE#gid=16)**
      - Active Projects: 129
      - Inactive Projects: 67

<!-- end list -->

  - **Projects Under Review**
      - [OWASP Cheat Sheets
        Project](https://www.owasp.org/index.php/Cheat_Sheets)
      - [OWASP Java HTML Sanitizer
        Project](https://www.owasp.org/index.php/OWASP_Java_HTML_Sanitizer_Project)
      - [OWASP Codes of
        Conduct](https://www.owasp.org/index.php/OWASP_Codes_of_Conduct)

## Currently Working On

  - **AppSec APAC 2013**
      - I will be attending AppSec APAC next week.
      - I will be leaving on Sunday, 17th, and I will be back on
        Tuesday, 26th.
      - I will be taking photographs at the event.
      - I will be managing the OWASP Projects Track presenters, as well.

<!-- end list -->

  - **OWASP Initiatives Meeting**
      - The webinar went very well yesterday.
      - Sarah lead this week's webinar, and I answered questions from
        the community.
      - You can find the presentation on the [OWASP Initiatives
        Page](https://www.owasp.org/index.php/OWASP_Initiatives_Global_Strategic_Focus)

<!-- end list -->

  - **Grants and Partnerships**
      - Our grants volunteer, Bev Corwin, proposed that OWASP
        participate in the [Identity Ecosystem Steering
        Group](http://www.idecosystem.org/page/nstic-timeline-and-documents).
      - This initiative is sponsored by NIST.
      - Bev submitted an application for us to become an organisational
        member.
      - Jim Manico is our voting chair for this initiative.
      - Jim and Bev are in the process of putting together a group to
        represent OWASP.

<!-- end list -->

  - **Chapter Leader Workshop**
      - I will be leading the Chapter Leader workshop at AppSec APAC
        2013.
      - Sarah, Kate and I worked together to get the logistics sorted.

<!-- end list -->

  - **Daily Project based queries and requests**
      - This has not changed much since I began the post: questions are
        very similar in nature.
      - Global AppSec questions.
      - Funding queries.
      - Travel availability.
      - Project based administrative help.
      - Project status information.
      - Several project donations questions.
      - OWASP LinkedIn Updates.
      - What's happening with projects, questions.

## Grants Updates

  - **Guidebooks Grant**

<!-- end list -->

1.  Amount: $25,000
2.  Status: We are still waiting for payment from DHS.

<!-- end list -->

  - **ESAPI Proposal**

<!-- end list -->

1.  Amount: $25,000
2.  Status: The ESAPI proposal is still being reviewed.

<!-- end list -->

  - **ModSecurity Grant Writing**

<!-- end list -->

1.  Amount: $30,000
2.  Status: The ModSecurity proposal is still being reviewed.

<!-- end list -->

  - **Google Grants Proposal**

<!-- end list -->

1.  Amount: $120,00 in Adwords Funds
2.  Status: I have begun managing the Adwords account regularly. I am
    waiting until we reach the implementation phase with our marketing
    company.

<!-- end list -->

  - **OWASP Static Analysis Tools Funding: DHS**

<!-- end list -->

1.  There is a possibility of funding some of our Static Analysis tools.
2.  The interested party is a different department within the DHS.
3.  No word yet from Kevin.

<!-- end list -->

  - **Total Grant Funds Awarded: $145,000 for 2013.**

[Category:GPC_Meetings](Category:GPC_Meetings "wikilink")
[Category:GPC_Meetings/2013](Category:GPC_Meetings/2013 "wikilink")