__TOC__

# OWASP Global Projects Report

  - **[Project
    Numbers](https://docs.google.com/a/owasp.org/spreadsheet/ccc?key=0AllOCxlYdf1AdFdaYXJ6SDFXNXBaemNwbnNHN3N5RVE#gid=16)**
      - Active Projects: 141
      - Inactive Projects: 67

<!-- end list -->

  - **Projects Under Review**
      - [OWASP Cheat Sheets
        Project](https://www.owasp.org/index.php/Cheat_Sheets)
      - [OWASP Java HTML Sanitizer
        Project](https://www.owasp.org/index.php/OWASP_Java_HTML_Sanitizer_Project)
      - [OWASP Codes of
        Conduct](https://www.owasp.org/index.php/OWASP_Codes_of_Conduct)
      - [Xenotix XSS Exploit
        Framework](https://www.owasp.org/index.php/OWASP_Xenotix_XSS_Exploit_Framework)

<!-- end list -->

  - **[Project
    Applications](https://docs.google.com/a/owasp.org/spreadsheet/ccc?key=0Amvv_7Gz8Z7TdHZfWGhHZ0Z4UFFwZU42djBXcVVLSlE#gid=0)**
      - OWASP RailsGoat Project

## Currently Working On

  - **OWASP Projects at Global AppSec Events**
      - I have developed a first draft of the event modules that I plan
        to coordinate at AppSec EU and USA.
      - AppSec EU: Open Source Showcase & OWASP Projects Track.
      - AppSec USA: Project Leader Workshop, Open Source Showcase
        (modified: 30 minute, presentation style demos), Project Summit.
      - The proposals have now been sent to the local event planning
        teams.
      - I am waiting to hear back from them now.

<!-- end list -->

  - **OWASP Project Leaders: Brand Usage Guidelines**
      - I have begun developing brand usage guidelines for our project
        leaders with Jim Manico's help.
      - We have decided to use the Apache Software Foundation's
        documentation on the subject as a guide for our own.
      - We feel they developed excellent material, and we plan to use
        their guidelines as a starting point.
      - I have spent this week researching their materials, and
        outlining our usage requirements.

<!-- end list -->

  - **OWASP Grants**
      - We have decided to take a different approach to our grant
        research, writing, and management.
      - This is primarily due to the limited number of resources and
        staff bandwidth.
      - The plan is to source a hand full of grants for the foundation.
      - Then focus on grant writing and management of these proposed
        grants for the year.
      - Q2 will start the research stage of this plan.

<!-- end list -->

  - **Development of Technical Project Advisor Requirements**
      - This item involves the new management work flow for project
        reviews that was proposed for 2013.
      - The volunteer job descriptions are still under development.
      - I hope to have these up by next week on our Initiatives page.
      - [Projects Review Process
        Proposal](https://www.owasp.org/index.php/Projects/Reviews_Management_Proposal_2013)
      - To read the full descriptions, please visit the [advisory role
        descriptions
        document](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1zqDf9CJeCj-uE5kFA_DwkDbHWTQDI9NNPdxOpU-KTl4/edit?usp=sharing).

<!-- end list -->

  - **Project Leader Responsibilities & Expectations**
      - I am currently working on putting together documentation that
        outlines a project leader's responsibilities, and our
        foundation's expectations of them.
      - I am also developing a "How to run a successful OWASP project"
        document.
      - An OWASP project lifecycle info graphic is being developed as
        well.
      - I hope that these "How To" documents and graphics will help
        project leaders understand their responsibilities, and how to
        leverage the OWASP project infrastructure for success.
      - This is an ongoing operations project.
      - I will have a first draft of these completed by the end of next
        week.

<!-- end list -->

  - **Daily Project based queries and requests**
      - This has not changed much since I began the post: questions are
        very similar in nature.
      - Global AppSec questions.
      - Funding queries.
      - Travel availability.
      - Project based administrative help.
      - Project status information.
      - Several project donations questions.
      - OWASP LinkedIn Updates.
      - What's happening with projects, questions.

## Grants Updates

  - **Guidebooks Grant**

<!-- end list -->

1.  Amount: $25,000
2.  Status: I have sent in our first project report to the DHS outlining
    the set backs we have had due to insufficient funds. This has
    prompted payment. We are due to receive our first check next week.

<!-- end list -->

  - **ESAPI Proposal**

<!-- end list -->

1.  Amount: $25,000
2.  Status: The ESAPI proposal is still being reviewed.

<!-- end list -->

  - **ModSecurity Grant Writing**

<!-- end list -->

1.  Amount: $30,000
2.  Status: The ModSecurity proposal is still being reviewed.

<!-- end list -->

  - **Google Grants Proposal**

<!-- end list -->

1.  Amount: $120,00 in Adwords Funds
2.  Status: We are now testing different keyword and campaign strategies
    for our global AppSec conferences.

<!-- end list -->

  - **Total Grant Funds Awarded: $145,000 for 2013.**

[Category:GPC_Meetings](Category:GPC_Meetings "wikilink")
[Category:GPC_Meetings/2013](Category:GPC_Meetings/2013 "wikilink")