__TOC__

# OWASP Global Projects Report

  - **[Project
    Numbers](https://docs.google.com/a/owasp.org/spreadsheet/ccc?key=0AllOCxlYdf1AdFdaYXJ6SDFXNXBaemNwbnNHN3N5RVE#gid=16)**
      - Active Projects: 142
      - Inactive Projects: 67

<!-- end list -->

  - **Projects Under Review**
      - [OWASP Cheat Sheets
        Project](https://www.owasp.org/index.php/Cheat_Sheets)
      - [OWASP Java HTML Sanitizer
        Project](https://www.owasp.org/index.php/OWASP_Java_HTML_Sanitizer_Project)
      - [Xenotix XSS Exploit
        Framework](https://www.owasp.org/index.php/OWASP_Xenotix_XSS_Exploit_Framework)

<!-- end list -->

  - **[Project
    Applications](https://docs.google.com/a/owasp.org/spreadsheet/ccc?key=0Amvv_7Gz8Z7TdHZfWGhHZ0Z4UFFwZU42djBXcVVLSlE#gid=0)**
      - OWASP Good Component Practices Project

## Currently Working On

  - **OWASP Project Leaders: Brand Usage Guidelines**
      - I have begun developing brand usage guidelines for our project
        leaders with Jim Manico's help.
      - We have decided to use the Apache Software Foundation's
        documentation on the subject as a guide for our own.
      - We feel they developed excellent material, and we plan to use
        their guidelines as a starting point.
      - I spent this week putting together our OWASP Project Leader
        Brand Usage Guidelines.
      - I plan to propose this to the community and the Board come next
        week.
      - [OWASP Project Leader Brand Usage
        Guidelines](https://www.owasp.org/index.php/Projects/Project_Brand_Guidelines).

<!-- end list -->

  - **Project Leader Responsibilities & Expectations**
      - I have finished putting together documentation that outlines a
        project leader's responsibilities, and our foundation's
        expectations of them.
      - This document was written to help project leaders understand
        their responsibilities as managers of their project(s).
      - The first draft is now complete: [Project Leader
        Responsibilities](https://www.owasp.org/index.php/Projects/Project_Leader_Responsibilities)
      - I plan to propose this to the community and the Board come next
        week.

<!-- end list -->

  - **Project Wiki Templates**
      - I am working towards developing new wiki templates for our OWASP
        Projects.
      - Leaders have expressed frustrations with our current templates
        as they are not very user friendly.
      - Our PLs also need to let our consumers know at which stage a
        project is in within our OWASP Projects Infrastructure.
      - Development is ongoing.

<!-- end list -->

  - **Project Leader Cheat Sheet**
      - I am currently developing a "How to run a successful OWASP
        Project" document.
      - I hope this document will help project leaders understand how to
        best leverage the OWASP Project Infrastructure for success.
      - This is an ongoing project.
      - I will have a first draft of this completed by the end of next
        week.

<!-- end list -->

  - **Sales Force for Projects**
      - Kate and I have been working together on Sales Force for
        Projects.
      - Currently, we have all of the existing project metadata updated
        into our Sales Force system.
      - We are exploring options for PLs to update their project
        information without my assistance.
      - We are also exploring options that will help PLs use Sales Force
        for project management, budget tracking, and resource tracking.
      - We came to the conclusion that Sales Force Portals are the best
        option.
      - Kate is looking into logistics for Portals.

<!-- end list -->

  - **Daily Project based queries and requests**
      - This has not changed much since I began the post: questions are
        very similar in nature.
      - Global AppSec questions.
      - Funding queries.
      - Travel availability.
      - Project based administrative help.
      - Project status information.
      - Several project donations questions.
      - OWASP LinkedIn Updates.
      - What's happening with projects, questions.

## Grants Updates

  - **Guidebooks Grant**

<!-- end list -->

1.  Amount: $25,000
2.  Status: DHS and Georgia Tech have not sent payment. I am reaching
    out to them again to try and see what the hold up is.

<!-- end list -->

  - **ESAPI Proposal**

<!-- end list -->

1.  Amount: $25,000
2.  Status: The ESAPI proposal is still being reviewed.

<!-- end list -->

  - **ModSecurity Grant Writing**

<!-- end list -->

1.  Amount: $30,000
2.  Status: The ModSecurity proposal is still being reviewed.

<!-- end list -->

  - **Google Grants Proposal**

<!-- end list -->

1.  Amount: $120,00 in Adwords Funds
2.  Status: We continue to test different keywords and strategies to try
    and find the best way to leverage this grant award. We are currently
    testing a strategy for the AppSec USA conference this year. I am
    seeking assistance from an AdWords expert next week.

<!-- end list -->

  - **Total Grant Funds Awarded: $145,000 for 2013.**

[Category:GPC_Meetings](Category:GPC_Meetings "wikilink")
[Category:GPC_Meetings/2013](Category:GPC_Meetings/2013 "wikilink")