__TOC__

# Project Division Updates

  - **[Project
    Numbers](https://docs.google.com/a/owasp.org/spreadsheet/ccc?key=0AllOCxlYdf1AdFdaYXJ6SDFXNXBaemNwbnNHN3N5RVE#gid=16)**
      - Active Projects: 124
      - Inactive Projects: 67

<!-- end list -->

  - Projects Under Review
      - [OWASP Cheat Sheets
        Project](https://www.owasp.org/index.php/Cheat_Sheets)
      - [OWASP Java HTML Sanitizer
        Project](https://www.owasp.org/index.php/OWASP_Java_HTML_Sanitizer_Project)

## Currently Working On

  - **Project Infrastructure Testing**
      - I have begun testing the new Project Infrastructure.
      - There are currently two projects going through the process.
      - All participants have been made aware that they are
        participating in a pilot review.
      - They will provide feedback upon completion.
      - I have had one review completed.

<!-- end list -->

  - **OWASP Code Review Guide**
      - Eoin and Larry, the project leader and project support
        volunteer, met today.
      - We have developed a roadmap towards getting the project started.
      - I plan to use this experience to get the other projects started
        and on their way.

<!-- end list -->

  - **New Project Web Page**
      - The new [Project
        Page](https://www.owasp.org/index.php/Test2test) design is now
        complete.
      - Please review the page, and note down any comments, changes,
        etc.
      - I will present this once more and then make it live.
      - I have gotten great feedback from the community.
      - Please ensure you have all of your queries to me before launch.

<!-- end list -->

  - **OWASP Initiatives Meeting**
      - The next initiative meeting is on January 28 at both 9:00 AM -
        10:00 AM EST & 9:00 PM - 10:00 PM EST
      - The last initiatives meeting went very well.
      - This next initiatives meeting will be entirely projects based.
      - Please make sure you register and contribute to this next
        meeting.

<!-- end list -->

  - **[Projects
    Handbook 2013](https://docs.google.com/a/owasp.org/document/d/1MpZx5w4TaqS-FoQaEXDhncz6dhG4mdgC4id2HsJQhjc/edit)**
      - The Projects Handbook is complete.
      - Please review when you get the opportunity, and provide feedback
        on the last draft.
      - I plan to make this live when the Projects Page goes live.

<!-- end list -->

  - **Daily Project based queries and requests**
      - This has not changed much since I began the post: questions are
        very similar in nature.
      - Global AppSec questions.
      - Funding queries.
      - Travel availability.
      - Project based administrative help.
      - Project status information.
      - Several project donations questions.
      - OWASP LinkedIn Updates.
      - What's happening with projects, questions.

## Grants Updates

  - **Guidebooks Grant**

<!-- end list -->

1.  Amount: $25,000
2.  Status: We have been accepted as a vendor for the Georgia Tech
    Institute which is the organization responsible for paying us the
    awarded funds. Alison is in the process of putting together an
    invoice for the first instalment. The Georgia Tech institute is in
    the process of sending us a purchase order.

<!-- end list -->

  - **ESAPI Proposal**

<!-- end list -->

1.  Amount: $25,000
2.  Status: The ESAPI proposal is still being reviewed.

<!-- end list -->

  - **ModSecurity Grant Writing**

<!-- end list -->

1.  Amount: $30,000
2.  Status: The first draft is now completed. We are in the internal
    review phase now.

<!-- end list -->

  - **Google Grants Proposal**

<!-- end list -->

1.  Amount: $120,00 in Adwords Funds
2.  Status: We have been successful in our application. We have been
    awarded $120,00 American dollars per year for this initiative.

<!-- end list -->

  - **Total Grant Funds Awarded: $145,000 for 2013.**

[Category:GPC_Meetings](Category:GPC_Meetings "wikilink")
[Category:GPC_Meetings/2013](Category:GPC_Meetings/2013 "wikilink")