__TOC__

# OWASP Global Projects Report

  - **[Project
    Numbers](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheet/ccc?key=0AllOCxlYdf1AdHBGbDhXQko4akJoVnMtMUpvZnJucVE&usp=sharing)**
      - Active Projects: 145
      - Inactive Projects: 67

<!-- end list -->

  - **Projects Under Review**
      - [OWASP Cheat Sheets
        Project](https://www.owasp.org/index.php/Cheat_Sheets)
      - [OWASP Java HTML Sanitizer
        Project](https://www.owasp.org/index.php/OWASP_Java_HTML_Sanitizer_Project)
      - [Xenotix XSS Exploit
        Framework](https://www.owasp.org/index.php/OWASP_Xenotix_XSS_Exploit_Framework)

<!-- end list -->

  - **[Project
    Applications](https://docs.google.com/a/owasp.org/spreadsheet/ccc?key=0Amvv_7Gz8Z7TdHZfWGhHZ0Z4UFFwZU42djBXcVVLSlE#gid=0)**
      - OWASP Web Application Security Quick Reference Guide Project
      - OWASP Application Fuzzing Framework Project
      - OWASP Security JDIs Project
      - OWASP Scytale Project

## Currently Working On

  - **OWASP Marketing**
      - I am managing the OWASP Marketing deliverables for the
        foundation.
      - I am managing the relationship with the Marketing company hired
        to deliver some materials for us.
      - The Ops Team and I discussed our current relationship with them,
        and the deliverables they have provided us.
      - We made decisions on these pieces, and recommendations on
        creative brief adjustments.
      - We met with the Marketing company this week, and communicated
        our decisions to them.
      - I am currently coordinating a webinar with the Marketing
        company, to communicate out their recommendations to us to our
        community.

<!-- end list -->

  - **Projects in SalesForce**
      - All existing project meta data has been entered into SalesForce.
      - The challenge now is implementing a workflow that will help me
        manage the data and the relationships between each piece of
        information.
      - I am currently working with Kate to figure out a short term
        solution for this.
      - The long term solution is to build SalesForce portals that will
        allow project leaders the ability to self manage their data.

<!-- end list -->

  - **Women in Security Event Module**
      - I met with several volunteers at the New York City volunteer
        meeting for AppSec USA 2013.
      - Some of these volunteers are interested in bringing the Women in
        Security event module back to AppSec USA this year.
      - I helped collect volunteer information, created a mailing list,
        and I am managing the conversation to help get this event module
        to the conference this year.
      - We are currently developing guidelines and entry requirements
        for new candidates.

<!-- end list -->

  - **Projects at AppSec EU**
      - Several members of the Ops Team and I met with Dirk, the local
        events planner for AppSec EU 2013.
      - We decided on bringing the Open Source Showcase, and the OWASP
        Projects Track (OPT) to the conference this year.
      - Dirk already has speakers lined up for the OPT, and I am putting
        together a "Call for Entries" for the OSS.

<!-- end list -->

  - **Daily Project based queries and requests**
      - This has not changed much since I began the post: questions are
        very similar in nature.
      - Global AppSec questions.
      - Funding queries.
      - Travel availability.
      - Project based administrative help.
      - Project status information.
      - Several project donations questions.
      - OWASP LinkedIn Updates.
      - What's happening with projects, questions.

## Grants Updates

  - **Guidebooks Grant**

<!-- end list -->

1.  Amount: $25,000
2.  Status: We have received our first payment from DHS. Alison has
    confirmed that she received a check for $7,000 for our projects.

<!-- end list -->

  - **ESAPI Proposal**

<!-- end list -->

1.  Amount: $25,000
2.  Status: The ESAPI proposal is still being reviewed.

<!-- end list -->

  - **ModSecurity Grant Writing**

<!-- end list -->

1.  Amount: $30,000
2.  Status: The ModSecurity proposal is still being reviewed.

<!-- end list -->

  - **Google Grants Proposal**

<!-- end list -->

1.  Amount: $120,00 in Adwords Funds
2.  Status: We continue to test different keywords and strategies to try
    and find the best way to leverage this grant award. We are currently
    testing a strategy for the AppSec USA conference this year. I am
    seeking assistance from an AdWords expert next week.

<!-- end list -->

  - **Total Grant Funds Awarded: $145,000 for 2013.**

[Category:GPC_Meetings](Category:GPC_Meetings "wikilink")
[Category:GPC_Meetings/2013](Category:GPC_Meetings/2013 "wikilink")