__TOC__

# Project Division Updates

  - **[Project
    Numbers](https://docs.google.com/a/owasp.org/spreadsheet/ccc?key=0AllOCxlYdf1AdFdaYXJ6SDFXNXBaemNwbnNHN3N5RVE#gid=16)**
      - Active Projects: 122
      - Inactive Projects: 67

<!-- end list -->

  - **[Pending Project
    Applications](https://docs.google.com/a/owasp.org/spreadsheet/ccc?key=0Amvv_7Gz8Z7TdHZfWGhHZ0Z4UFFwZU42djBXcVVLSlE#gid=0)**
      - OWASP Crowdtesting

## Currently Working On

  - **AppSec APAC 2013: Planning**
      - We have now selected our two OPT speakers.
      - Dennis Groves: OWASP AppSensor the future of Application
        Security.
      - Jim Manico: Using ESAPI for Java to Build Secure Web
        Applications.
      - They are both registered, and have their travel arrangements
        sorted.

<!-- end list -->

  - **New Project Web Page**
      - The new [Project
        Page](https://www.owasp.org/index.php/Test2test) design is now
        complete.
      - Please review the page, and note down any comments, changes,
        etc.
      - I plan to make this live next week.
      - I have received great feedback from the OWASP Board. Please do
        let me know if you have further comments or suggestions.

<!-- end list -->

  - **OWASP Initiatives Meeting**
      - The next initiative meeting is on January 10 at both 9:00 AM -
        10:00 AM EST & 9:00 PM - 10:00 PM EST
      - Register for the [9AM
        Meeting](https://www3.gotomeeting.com/register/643389462)
      - Register for the [9PM
        Meeting](https://www3.gotomeeting.com/register/895758390)

<!-- end list -->

  - **[Projects
    Handbook 2013](https://docs.google.com/a/owasp.org/document/d/1MpZx5w4TaqS-FoQaEXDhncz6dhG4mdgC4id2HsJQhjc/edit)**
      - The Projects Handbook is almost complete.
      - Please review when you get the opportunity, and provide feedback
        on the last draft.
      - I plan to make this live by next week with the Projects Page.

<!-- end list -->

  - **Daily Project based queries and requests**
      - This has not changed much since I began the post: questions are
        very similar in nature.
      - Global AppSec questions.
      - Funding queries.
      - Travel availability.
      - Project based administrative help.
      - Project status information.
      - Several project donations questions.
      - OWASP LinkedIn Updates.
      - What's happening with projects, questions.

## Grants Updates

  - **Guidebooks Grant**

<!-- end list -->

1.  Amount: $25,000
2.  Status: Alison, Kate, and I submitted the final paperwork. Deb has
    accepted, and she is in the process of sorting out payment. The
    payments will be distributed to us in 3 instalments.

<!-- end list -->

  - **ESAPI Proposal**

<!-- end list -->

1.  Amount: $25,000
2.  Status: Deb, our DHS Representative, has let me know that this
    proposal has passed the first round of reviews. It is currently in
    the peer review stage of the assessment. We should hear back from
    them after the holidays.

<!-- end list -->

  - **ModSecurity Grant Writing**

<!-- end list -->

1.  Amount: $30,000
2.  Status: We are still in the grant writing process.

<!-- end list -->

  - **Google Grants Proposal**

<!-- end list -->

1.  Amount: $120,00 in Adwords Funds
2.  Status: This is complete and submitted. We should hear back from the
    Google Grants team some time this month.

## Attendees

  - Samantha Groves
  - Nishi Kumar
  - Keith Turpin
  - Kate Hartman

## Announcements

1.  AppSec APAC 2013: Planning - Dennis Groves and Jim Manico are our
    two project speakers for this conference. Their travel,
    registration, and hotel reservations are sorted.
2.  The new Project Page design is now complete. Please review the page,
    and note down any comments, changes, etc. I am planning on making
    this live next week.
3.  OWASP Initiatives Meeting: The next initiative meeting is on January
    10 at both 9:00 AM - 10:00 AM EST & 9:00 PM - 10:00 PM EST. Register
    for the 9AM Meeting Register for the 9PM Meeting
4.  I will not have any scheduled GPC meetings for the rest of January.
    These meetings will be replaced by the OWASP Initiatives Meetings.
5.  Keith suggested that we should try the initiatives meetings for the
    month of January and then decide whether we wish to meet more
    regularly come February. I agree. This is the plan. Please make sure
    you join the Initiative Meetings. The registration can be found on
    Announcement 3.
6.  Projects Handbook 2013- Please review when you get the opportunity,
    and provide feedback on the last draft. I plan to make this live by
    next week with the Projects Page.
7.  Keith suggested we develop a project requirement that will identify
    a project's maturity level both visually and within their
    documentation.
8.  I tasked myself with developing a template, visual branding, and
    review criteria to meet this need.

[Category:GPC_Meetings](Category:GPC_Meetings "wikilink")
[Category:GPC_Meetings/2013](Category:GPC_Meetings/2013 "wikilink")