__TOC__

# Project Division Updates

  - **[Project
    Numbers](https://docs.google.com/a/owasp.org/spreadsheet/ccc?key=0AllOCxlYdf1AdFdaYXJ6SDFXNXBaemNwbnNHN3N5RVE#gid=16)**
      - Active Projects: 136
      - Inactive Projects: 67

<!-- end list -->

  - **Projects Under Review**
      - [OWASP Cheat Sheets
        Project](https://www.owasp.org/index.php/Cheat_Sheets)
      - [OWASP Java HTML Sanitizer
        Project](https://www.owasp.org/index.php/OWASP_Java_HTML_Sanitizer_Project)
      - [OWASP Codes of
        Conduct](https://www.owasp.org/index.php/OWASP_Codes_of_Conduct)
      - [Xenotix XSS Exploit
        Framework](https://www.owasp.org/index.php/OWASP_Xenotix_XSS_Exploit_Framework)

<!-- end list -->

  - **[Project
    Applications](https://docs.google.com/a/owasp.org/spreadsheet/ccc?key=0Amvv_7Gz8Z7TdHZfWGhHZ0Z4UFFwZU42djBXcVVLSlE#gid=0)**
      - Development of security framework based on Owasp Esapi for
        JSF2.0 (DSFE) Project
      - Barbarus
      - Droid Fusion
      - iSABEL Proxy Server

## Currently Working On

  - **AppSec USA: OPT \&OSS**
      - We are developing two different event modules for AppSec USA.
      - OPT: This event module will be omitted for AppSec USA.
      - OSS: This event module will be altered to include a full day of
        30 minute, presentation like demos.
      - Mini Project Working Groups: This event module will be developed
        for this conference. The idea is to coordinate working groups
        for a handfull of projects at the conference.
      - Project Leader Workshop: I will put together and run the Project
        Leader Workshop at AppSec USA.

<!-- end list -->

  - **Project Reviews Process: Workflow Adjustment**
      - Testing of original Reviews Process developed in early 2013
        produced these results: 1. Poor quality of reviewers; 2. Poor
        quality of the reviews.
      - Below is the new proposal:
      - A working group of technical project advisors headed by a member
        of the board.
      - I feel this person should be you, Jim, since I think you have
        shown great dedication and support to our projects overall.
        (Lead Technical Project Advisor).
      - The working group should be made up of the following areas:
        Secure Development, Secure Lifecycle Activity, Static Analysis,
        Dynamic Analysis, Governance, and Knowledge.
      - Each of these areas should be a project division role filled by
        one individual.
      - Each role will have a six month limit, or the individual can
        resign the post if he/she can no longer fulfil the role's
        duties.
      - These roles will be responsible for reviewing projects, and
        increasing the quality of the project review process and
        criteria.
      - This working group will be managed by the Lead Technical Project
        Advisor (Jim) with updates and outcomes reported to the OWASP
        PM.

<!-- end list -->

  - **Black Hat EU**
      - I am scheduled to attend Black Hat EU in next weeks.
      - I am helping man our OWASP Booth for two days.
      - Goal: Familiarise myself with Black Hat event management,
        branding, activities.
      - Martin Knobloch and Ferdinand Vroom are scheduled to volunteer
        as well.
      - I will be attending the Netherlands Chapter Meeting during the
        conference as well.

<!-- end list -->

  - **OWASP Marketing**
      - I am taking a more active role in OWASP's Global Marketing
        Initiatives.
      - The next initiatives meeting will involve the Marketing Company
        we are currently working with.
      - They will present their Phase 1 research findings to the entire
        community.
      - Goal: To develop a marketing and brand strategy for the
        organisation.
      - I will coordinate Phase 3 & 4 of our Marketing Initiatives.

<!-- end list -->

  - **Daily Project based queries and requests**
      - This has not changed much since I began the post: questions are
        very similar in nature.
      - Global AppSec questions.
      - Funding queries.
      - Travel availability.
      - Project based administrative help.
      - Project status information.
      - Several project donations questions.
      - OWASP LinkedIn Updates.
      - What's happening with projects, questions.

## Grants Updates

  - **Guidebooks Grant**

<!-- end list -->

1.  Amount: $25,000
2.  Status: We are still waiting for payment from DHS.

<!-- end list -->

  - **ESAPI Proposal**

<!-- end list -->

1.  Amount: $25,000
2.  Status: The ESAPI proposal is still being reviewed.

<!-- end list -->

  - **ModSecurity Grant Writing**

<!-- end list -->

1.  Amount: $30,000
2.  Status: The ModSecurity proposal is still being reviewed.

<!-- end list -->

  - **Google Grants Proposal**

<!-- end list -->

1.  Amount: $120,00 in Adwords Funds
2.  Status: I have begun managing the Adwords account regularly. I am
    waiting until we reach the implementation phase with our marketing
    company.

<!-- end list -->

  - **Total Grant Funds Awarded: $145,000 for 2013.**

[Category:GPC_Meetings](Category:GPC_Meetings "wikilink")
[Category:GPC_Meetings/2013](Category:GPC_Meetings/2013 "wikilink")