__TOC__

# OWASP Global Projects Report

  - **[Project
    Numbers](https://docs.google.com/a/owasp.org/spreadsheet/ccc?key=0AllOCxlYdf1AdFdaYXJ6SDFXNXBaemNwbnNHN3N5RVE#gid=16)**
      - Active Projects: 142
      - Inactive Projects: 67

<!-- end list -->

  - **Projects Under Review**
      - [OWASP Cheat Sheets
        Project](https://www.owasp.org/index.php/Cheat_Sheets)
      - [OWASP Java HTML Sanitizer
        Project](https://www.owasp.org/index.php/OWASP_Java_HTML_Sanitizer_Project)
      - [Xenotix XSS Exploit
        Framework](https://www.owasp.org/index.php/OWASP_Xenotix_XSS_Exploit_Framework)

<!-- end list -->

  - **[Project
    Applications](https://docs.google.com/a/owasp.org/spreadsheet/ccc?key=0Amvv_7Gz8Z7TdHZfWGhHZ0Z4UFFwZU42djBXcVVLSlE#gid=0)**
      - OWASP Good Component Practices Project
      - OWASP Bywaf Project
      - OWASP S.T.I.N.G Project

## Currently Working On

  - **Staff Summit 2013: New York City, USA**
      - The majority of the OWASP Staff met for 4 days in New York city
        for a week long staff working summit.
      - Topics covered include: global marketing, international
        accounting, SalesForce, project lifecycle, project marketing,
        chapter funds, etc.
      - A visual workflow for the projects lifecycle was discussed and
        outlined.
      - Project funds allocation guidelines were discussed.
      - Operational set up in SalesForce for projects was discussed and
        planned.

<!-- end list -->

  - **Projects in SalesForce**
      - All existing project meta data has been entered into SalesForce.
      - Currently, I am working on developing the projects dashboard and
        reporting work flow within SalesForce.
      - Kate and I discussed an organisational structure within
        SalesForce that we can build and use to manage our projects.
      - SalesForce portals were discussed as a long term solution for
        our project leaders, project initiative job management, and user
        data.
      - Short term solution is to create an efficient workflow for me to
        manage all of this data while our portals are being developed.

<!-- end list -->

  - **Project Lifecycle Info-graphic**
      - The Ops Team had a long discussion about the project lifecycle,
        and the visualisation of that information.
      - I wanted to be sure my doodles would make sense to individuals
        unfamiliar with the process.
      - Several adjustments were made based on team feedback.
      - I am sourcing different design agencies for an info-graphic
        quote.

<!-- end list -->

  - **Internal Marketing Plan**
      - The Ops Team had a long discussion about our marketing needs,
        marketing relationships, and deliverables.
      - We went through each line item and discussed the deliverable in
        details.
      - The outcome was a list of deliverables that have been approved,
        require adjustments, or that require a complete re-work.
      - Our list has been communicated to the Marketing company hired to
        create our deliverables.

<!-- end list -->

  - **Daily Project based queries and requests**
      - This has not changed much since I began the post: questions are
        very similar in nature.
      - Global AppSec questions.
      - Funding queries.
      - Travel availability.
      - Project based administrative help.
      - Project status information.
      - Several project donations questions.
      - OWASP LinkedIn Updates.
      - What's happening with projects, questions.

## Grants Updates

  - **Guidebooks Grant**

<!-- end list -->

1.  Amount: $25,000
2.  Status: DHS has sent the first instalment of our grant award.

<!-- end list -->

  - **ESAPI Proposal**

<!-- end list -->

1.  Amount: $25,000
2.  Status: The ESAPI proposal is still being reviewed.

<!-- end list -->

  - **ModSecurity Grant Writing**

<!-- end list -->

1.  Amount: $30,000
2.  Status: The ModSecurity proposal is still being reviewed.

<!-- end list -->

  - **Google Grants Proposal**

<!-- end list -->

1.  Amount: $120,00 in Adwords Funds
2.  Status: We continue to test different keywords and strategies to try
    and find the best way to leverage this grant award. We are currently
    testing a strategy for the AppSec USA conference this year. I am
    seeking assistance from an AdWords expert next week.

<!-- end list -->

  - **Total Grant Funds Awarded: $145,000 for 2013.**

[Category:GPC_Meetings](Category:GPC_Meetings "wikilink")
[Category:GPC_Meetings/2013](Category:GPC_Meetings/2013 "wikilink")