<small>[Click here to return to project's main
page](:OWASP_Secure_Coding_Practices_-_Quick_Reference_Guide "wikilink")</small>

## Release Review of the [OWASP Secure Coding Practices - Quick Reference Guide](:OWASP_Secure_Coding_Practices_-_Quick_Reference_Guide "wikilink") - [SCP v1.1](Projects/OWASP_Secure_Coding_Practices_-_Quick_Reference_Guide/Releases/SCP_v1.1 "wikilink") Release

  - This release is the result of the changes introduced in the previous
    version ([Release SCP
    v1](Projects/OWASP_Secure_Coding_Practices_-_Quick_Reference_Guide/Releases/SCP_v1 "wikilink"))
    which were the consequence of the
    [assessment](http://www.owasp.org/index.php/Projects/OWASP_Secure_Coding_Practices_-_Quick_Reference_Guide/Releases/SCP_v1/Assessment)
    process it was submitted to.
  - For additional info, please see also the file ['Secure Coding Guide
    Assessment Feedback
    Disposition'](http://www.owasp.org/images/6/64/SCP-QRG_Revisions_History.xls).

-----

#### Project Leader for this Release

***[Keith Turpin](user:Keith_Turpin "wikilink")'s Pre-Assessment
Check-list:***

## Project Leader review

{{ Template:Pre-Assessment Questions - Documents

| 1. Is this release associated with a project containing at least the
[Project Wiki Page Minimum
Content](Assessing_Project_Health#Project_Wiki_Page_Minimal_Content "wikilink")
information? = answer 1

| 2. Is your document licensed under a free and open license? (see
Project Licensing section of the [Guidelines for OWASP
Projects](http://www.owasp.org/index.php/Guidelines_for_OWASP_Projects))
Please point out the link(s). = answer 2

| 3. Is the document available as a PDF (Portable Document Format) and
an editable (.Doc) format on the project site? Please point out the
link(s). = answer 3

| 4. Are all articles that constitute the project release properly
tagged within project category and available from main project Wiki
page? Please point out the link(s). = answer 4

| 5. Is there a roadmap for this project release which will take it from
Alpha to Stable release? Please point out the link(s). = answer 5

| 6. Are the Alpha pre-assessment items complete? = answer 6

| 7. Are all document contents (articles) present and listed on the
OWASP project wiki page? Please point out the link(s). = answer 7

| 8. Is there user documentation on the OWASP project wiki page? Please
point out the link(s). = answer 8

| 9. Is there an “About This Document” section in the document listing:
= answer 9

| 10. Is there documentation on how to build the tool from source
including obtaining the source from the code repository? = answer 10

| 11. Are the Alpha and Beta pre-assessment items complete? = answer 11

| 12. Have any limitations been documented? Please point out the
link(s). = answer 12

| 13. Does the document consider [OWASP Writing
Style](http://www.owasp.org/index.php/OWASP_Writing_Style) and [OWASP
Template for
Docs](http://www.owasp.org/index.php/OWASP_Template_Document)? Please
point out the link(s) = answer 13

| 14. Is there a one sheet overview document about the project release?
Please point out the link(s). = answer 14

| 15. Is the document in a format which can be converted to an OWASP
book? (books are currently via Lulu.com) Please point out the link(s). =
answer 15

}}

#### First Reviewer

***[Ludovic Petit](user:Ludovic_Petit "wikilink")'s Review:***

## First Reviewer

<small>Ideally, reviewers should be an existing OWASP project leader or
chapter leader.</small>

{{ :Template:Assessment Questions - Documents

| 1. Does the document consider the [OWASP Writing
Style](http://www.owasp.org/index.php/OWASP_Writing_Style)? = answer 1

| 2. Do contents from wiki articles match download-able documents? (PDF
and .doc versions) = answer 2

| 3. Does the document have an “About This Document” section which
allows the end user to get an overview of the state of the document? =
answer 3

| 4. How completely does the release address the goal of the project? Is
the overall document complete in structure and organization? Are any
missing or incomplete sections critical enough to keep the document at
an Alpha quality level? = answer 4

| 5. Have all the Beta Reviewer Action Items been completed? These will
need to be completed if they have not already occurred during a previous
assessment. = answer 5

| 6. Have any limitations been documented? Please point out the link(s).
= answer 6

| 7. Does the document substantially address the application security
issues it was created to solve? = answer 7

| 8. Does the document respect OWASP Writing Style and OWASP Template
for Docs? = answer 8

| 9. Have you noted any limitations of the document that are not already
documented by the project release lead? = answer 9

| 10. Would you consider using this document in your day to day work
assuming your professional work includes a reason to use this document?
Would you recommend this document to others in the profession? Why or
why not? = answer 10

| 11. What, if anything, is missing which would make this a more useful
document? Is what is missing critical enough to keep the release at a
beta quality? = answer 11 }}

#### Second Reviewer

***[Brad Causey](user:Bradcausey "wikilink")'s Review:***

## Second Reviewer

<small>It is recommended that an OWASP board member or Global Projects
Committee member be the second reviewer on Quality releases. The board
has the initial option to review the project, followed by the Global
Projects Committee.</small>

{{ :Template:Assessment Questions - Documents

| 1. Does the document consider the [OWASP Writing
Style](http://www.owasp.org/index.php/OWASP_Writing_Style)? = answer 1

| 2. Do contents from wiki articles match download-able documents? (PDF
and .doc versions) = answer 2

| 3. Does the document have an “About This Document” section which
allows the end user to get an overview of the state of the document? =
answer 3

| 4. How completely does the release address the goal of the project? Is
the overall document complete in structure and organization? Are any
missing or incomplete sections critical enough to keep the document at
an Alpha quality level? = answer 4

| 5. Have all the Beta Reviewer Action Items been completed? These will
need to be completed if they have not already occurred during a previous
assessment. = answer 5

| 6. Have any limitations been documented? Please point out the link(s).
= answer 6

| 7. Does the document substantially address the application security
issues it was created to solve? = answer 7

| 8. Does the document respect OWASP Writing Style and OWASP Template
for Docs? = answer 8

| 9. Have you noted any limitations of the document that are not already
documented by the project release lead? = answer 9

| 10. Would you consider using this document in your day to day work
assuming your professional work includes a reason to use this document?
Would you recommend this document to others in the profession? Why or
why not? = answer 10

| 11. What, if anything, is missing which would make this a more useful
document? Is what is missing critical enough to keep the release at a
beta quality? = answer 11 }} ---\>

__NOTOC__ <headertabs/>