### Subject: Summit Attendee - Bio and Picture Requested

Date: 31 Jan, 2011 (11:37am CST)

Summit Attendees (you have all been bcc'ed):

With the Summit only a week away we are focusing on details and have
come to the conclusion (after quite a few inquiries) that it would be
nice for the Summit Attendees to know a little about each other and who
else is at the Summit.

If you would send me a 1-2 paragraph bio and small picture as soon as
possible, I will work on having this ready for you by the time you
arrive. If you would NOT like your information (or picture) distributed,
please let me know this as well. If I don't hear from you I will assume,
you were too busy to put something together but it is OK for me to use
information I have found on other OWASP pages or publicly available
profiles (linkedin, etc.)

Best Regards,

Sarah Baso

### Subject: Summit Attendee: Items needed for Summit

Date: 31 Jan, 2011 (12:08pm CST)

Summit Attendees (you have all been bcc'ed):

We are in need of the following items to use for the duration of the
Summit - MANY of them (not just one), so please let me know if you can
bring them with or you have any questions\!

  - Projectors
  - Old laptops (decent, wipe-out and we can install new OS for internet
    access, training and other testing as needed)
  - Old mobile phones
  - Adapters/currency converters

Best Regards,

Sarah Baso

### Subject: Summit Attendee: If you have flight changes due to weather or any other circumstances

Date: 1 Feb, 2011 (11:34am CST)

Summit Attendees (you have all been bcc'ed) -

If you have any changes in flights, please promptly send myself and
Maria at Diplomata Tours (addressed above):diplo@diplomatatours.pt, an
email letting us know so that the transportation company (and hotel if
necessary) can be properly apprised of the situation.

Best Regards,

Sarah Baso

### Summit Attendee - YOUR TRANSPORTATION IS PROVIDED\!

Date: 2 Feb, 2011 (8:52am CST)

Summit Attendees (you have all been bcc'ed) --

Transportation between the airport and CampoReal (location of Summit and
accommodations) is provided and included in the package you have booked.
We have all your flight information and have arranged accordingly.

Upon arrival at Lisbon Airport, go through Customs, then you collect
your luggage, and walk outside to the main Arrival hall of Lisbon
Airport. As you come out of the door, there will be a person with the
board saying "OWASP Summit 2011", then you have to come down a ramp and
meet him/her.

If you will not be traveling directly to the venue from the airport (or
back to the airport from the venue), you will need to email me
separately to set up transportation needs. IF YOU HAVE ALREADY ARRANGED
THIS though myself or diplomata... there is no need to contact us again.

Let me know if you have any questions/concerns.

Best Regards,

Sarah Baso

### Summit Attendee -- dietary and other special requests

Date: 2 Feb, 2011 (8:05pm CST)

Summit Attendees (you have all been bcc'ed) -

Please let me know if you have any special dietary requests or
restrictions so we can accommodate your needs at the Summit.

Also, for those of you doing work or having other business
needs/concerns, please let me know and I can try to have information
ready for you upon your arrival. We will likely have pre-paid "throw
away" cell phones to purchase for around $40. If this is something that
you might be interested in, let me know.

Anything else I (or the Summit Team) can do to make your Summit
experience better, send me a note and I will do my best to make it
happen\!

Regards,

Sarah Baso