<noinclude>[**Back to main Summit 2011 page**](Summit_2011 "wikilink")
</noinclude>

# Venue

![Image:Hotel entrance 697x395.jpg](Hotel_entrance_697x395.jpg
"Image:Hotel entrance 697x395.jpg")

The OWASP Summit 2011 will be held at the [CampoReal
Resort](http://www.camporeal.pt/), located in central Oeste Portugal 38
km north of Lisbon and 18 km inland from the Atlantic Ocean.

# Accommodations

![Image:Villas.jpg](Villas.jpg "Image:Villas.jpg")

Attendees will be staying in [shared villa
accommodations](http://www.camporeal.pt/en/hotel-residences/accommodation/residences.aspx)
with the option of staying in [private hotel
rooms](http://www.camporeal.pt/en/hotel-residences/accommodation/bedrooms.aspx).
Each villa includes: private bathroom, kitchenette, and a balcony or
garden. The resort has a Gym and Fitness Center, Swimming Pools,
Football (Soccer) camp, Horse Back Riding, Day Spa, Golfcourse and many
other amenities. [Learn
more](http://www.camporeal.pt/media/230632/factsheet.pdf) the resort
here.

<span style="color:red">\*NOTE CHANGE\*</span>
Attendees should ***not*** book accommodations directly with CampoReal.
To purchase your Summit ticket and book accommodations please visit
[RegOnline](http://www.regonline.com/owasp_global_summit_2011). For
OWASP sponsored attendees, contact [Sarah
Baso](mailto:sarah.baso@owasp.org) regarding your ticket and booking
process, as outlined in the [reservation
process](Summit_2011_Reservations "wikilink"). For questions regarding
the RegOnline system or process, please contact [Kate
Hartmann](mailto:kate.hartmann@owasp.org).
![REGISTER_NOW_244.jpg](REGISTER_NOW_244.jpg "REGISTER_NOW_244.jpg")