<noinclude></noinclude> __NOTOC__

## The Presentation

The Trustwave 2012 Global Security Report highlights top data security
risk areas, offering predictions on future targets based on analysis and
perceived trends.
This 45 min., presentation will provide the attendee with a
understanding current threats, techniques and entertaining examples
\-Results from over 300 incident response and forensic investigations
performed across 18 different countries _ you can learn how to fight
better if you understand history.
\-Results analysis from over 2000 manual penetration tests and over 2
million network and application vulnerability scans the results will
surprise you. _ attendee will better understand what SpiderLabs is
seeing in the real world
\-Analysis and trends from 16 Billion emails from 2008 to 2011 _ the
results are surpising -Usage and weakness analysis of over 2 million
business passwords _ what r00t can tell you about your user base.
\- Analysis of Denial of Service incidents of 2011 and update on OWASP
http post tool and the OWASP CRS Mod_Security project
\-Analysis of almost 300,000 different digital certificates (SSL) from a
scan of over 17 million Internet facing devices including The Online
Certificate Status Protocol (OCSP) usage data from our SSL
infrastructure
References to OWASP projects and methodologies in helping the attendee
deal with yesterdays problems, tomorrow.

## The Speakers

<table>

<tr>

<td>

### Tom Brennan

![BRENNAN-PRESS-2-small.png](BRENNAN-PRESS-2-small.png
"BRENNAN-PRESS-2-small.png") Tom's colossal cave adventure started the
same year as WarGames armed with a Televideo 802H, Commodore and Atari
8-Bit machines and a set of lock-picks, the hobby moved quickly from
handles to mainstream. Tom took a front row seat on the architecture,
development, administration and security of computer-controlled systems
with experiences ranging from the financial trading floor of Wall Street
to the [United States Marines Corps](http://www.usmc.mil)

\- Recent [Wiki
Edits](https://www.owasp.org/index.php/Special:Contributions/Brennan)

\- OWASP Foundation, 2007-Current International Board of Directors /
Chapter Leader / Project Leader

\- FBI [Infragard](http://www.infragard.net) 2002-2004 Board of
Directors, New Jersey â€“ Secure Member

\- [American Bar Association](http://www.americanbar.org) - Science &
Technology Law Committee

\- ISO CS1 Ad Hoc Meeting Participant

\- [Marine Corps League](http://www.mcleague.org/) - Member

\- [American Legion](http://www.legion.org/) - Member

\- [IEEE](http://www.ieee.org) - Member

\- NBISE - Operational Security Testing Panel Member

Tom is the Director of Strategic Initiatives, at <b>[Trustwave
SpiderLabs](http://www.trustwave.com)</b> and to clients the largest
[red team](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Red_team) in the world focused
on response and investigation, analysis and testing, research and
development. [<Blog>](http://blog.spiderlabs.com/) Trustwave with over
700 employees is headquartered in the United States in Chicago, Ill.
with offices throughout Africa, Asia, Australia, Europe, North America
and South America [more info..](https://www.trustwave.com/locations.php)

A father of four children, Tom is frequent and entertaining speaker at
information security conferences on the convergence of physical and
software security risks, threats and suggestions on a better approach.

To follow the daily antics of Tom on Twitter - [Click
Here](http://www.twitter.com/brennantom), [Linked'In
Profile](http://www.linkedin.com/in/tombrennan) or call 973-202-0122.

</td>

</tr>

<tr>

<td>

### Nick Percoco

![Npercoco_-_crop_-_casual.jpg](Npercoco_-_crop_-_casual.jpg
"Npercoco_-_crop_-_casual.jpg")Nicholas J. Percoco Senior Vice
President, SpiderLabs Trustwave

With more than 15 years of information security experience, Percoco
leads the global SpiderLabs organization that has performed more than
1300 computer incident response and forensic investigations globally,
run thousands of ethical hacking and application security tests for
clients, and conduct bleeding-edge security research to improve
Trustwave's products.

Prior to joining Trustwave, Percoco ran security consulting practices at
VeriSign, and Internet Security Systems. In 2004, he drafted an
application security framework that became known as the Payment
Application Best Practices (PABP). In 2008, this framework was adopted
as a global standard called Payment Application Data Security Standard
(PA-DSS).

As a speaker, he has provided unique insight around security breaches,
malware, mobile security and InfoSec trends to public (Black Hat,
DEFCON, SecTor, You Sh0t the Sheriff, OWASP) and private audiences
(Including DHS, US-CERT, Interpol, United State Secret Service)
throughout North America, South America, Europe, and Asia.

Percoco and his research has been featured by many news organizations
including: The Washington Post, eWeek, PC World, CNET, Wired, Hakin9,
Network World, Dark Reading, Fox News, USA Today, Forbes, Computerworld,
CSO Magazine, CNN, The Times of London, NPR, Gizmodo, Fast Company,
Financial Times and The Wall Street Journal.

In 2011, SC Magazine named Percoco Security Researcher of the Year. In
addition, he was inducted into the inaugural class of the Illinois State
University College of Applied Science and Technology Academy of
Achievement.

Percoco is a member of the Dean's Advisory Board for The College of
Applied Science & Technology at Illinois State University and a
co-creator on the planning committee of THOTCON, a hacking and security
conference held in Chicago each year. He has a Bachelor of Science in
Computer Science from Illinois State University.

</td>

</tr>

</table>

<noinclude></noinclude>