<noinclude></noinclude> __NOTOC__

## The Presentation

Access Control is a necessary security control at almost every layer
within a web application. This talk will discuss several of the key
access control anti-patterns commonly found during website security
audits. These access control anti-patterns include hard-coded security
policies, lack of horizontal access control, and "fail open" access
control mechanisms. In reviewing these and other access control
anti-patters (problems), we will discuss and design a positive access
control mechanism that is data contextual, activity based, configurable,
flexible, and deny-by-default - among other positive design attributes
that make up a robust web-based access-control mechanism.

## The Speakers

<table>

<tr>

<td>

### Jim Manico

![AppSecDC12-manico.png](AppSecDC12-manico.png
"AppSecDC12-manico.png")Jim Manico is the VP of Security Architecture
for WhiteHat Security. Jim is part of the WhiteHat Static Analysis
Software Testing (SAST) team, leading the data-driven, Web service
portion of the SAST service. He also provides secure coding and
developer awareness training for WhiteHat using his 7+ years of
experience delivering developer-training courses for SANS, Aspect
Security and others.

Jim brings 15 years of database-driven Web software development and
analysis experience to WhiteHat. He has helped deliver Web-centric
software systems for Sun Microsystem, Fox Media (MySpace), several
Fortune 500's, and major NGO financial institutions. He holds expertise
in a variety of areas, includingWeb-based J2EE development, thick-client
and applet-based Java applications, hybrid Java, C++ and Flash
applications, Web-based PHP applications, rich-media Web applications
using advanced Ajax techniques, Python REST Webservice development, and
Database technology using Oracle, MySQL and Postgres.

A host of the OWASP Podcast Series, Jim is the committee chair of the
OWASP Connections Committee and is a significant contributor to various
OWASP projects.

Jim works on the beautiful island of Kauai, Hawaii where he lives with
his wife Tracey.

</td>

</tr>

</table>

<noinclude></noinclude>