<noinclude></noinclude> __NOTOC__

## The Presentation

Advanced Metering Infrastructure (AMI) is the most exposed part of the
Smart Grid. Public-facing devices include smart meters on the sides of
businesses and houses and aggregation points on the top of telephone
poles. But the risks and vulnerabilities do not stop here. The back-end
resources of an AMI implementation are still potentially vulnerable to
all of the same threat vectors as everyday web-based business solutions.
Cross-site scripting, cross site request forgery, insufficient network
monitoring, and questionable web server and database configurations all
play a part in increasing the risk to the AMI deployment and the
electrical grid itself. This presentation will outline these
vulnerabilities and provide recommendations that will increase the
security of an AMI deployment and increase the reliability of the
electrical infrastructure it supports. This presentation will cover the
following topics:
\- AMI implementation overview from Smart Meters to the back-end
resources - Smart meter hacking techniques and mitigations - FHSS
analysis techniques and mitigations - Network configuration and
monitoring concerns and mitigations - Web application vulnerabilities
and mitigations

## The Speakers

<table>

<tr>

<td>

### John Sawyer

![AppSecDC12-Sawyer.jpg](AppSecDC12-Sawyer.jpg
"AppSecDC12-Sawyer.jpg")John Sawyer is a Senior Security Analyst with
InGuardians specializing in network and web application penetration
testing. John's experience in enterprise IT security includes
penetration testing, system and network hardening, intrusion analysis,
and digital forensics.

John has developed and taught cyber security training for a large
university and spoken at events for industry and law enforcement. He has
consulted with federal, state, and local law enforcement agencies on
malware analysis, hacker attacks, and digital forensics. John is the
author of the popular blog, "Evil Bytes", at DarkReading.com, and a
member of the winning team from DEF CON 14 and 15's Capture the Flag
competition.

</td>

</tr>

<tr>

<td>

### Don Weber

![AppSecDC12-Webber.jpg](AppSecDC12-Webber.jpg
"AppSecDC12-Webber.jpg")Jack of All Trades and hardware analysis expert
for the InGuardians. Don specializes in physical and information
technology penetration testing, web assessments, wireless assessments,
architecture review, incident response/digital forensics, product
research, hardware research, code review, security tool development, and
the list goes on. Don is currently focusing on hardware research
specifically in the technologies surrounding products comprising the
SMART GRID. He has focused on implementing various communication
protocols and microprocessor disassembers/emulators for research,
testing, risk assessment, and anything else you can think of with these
technologies.

</td>

</tr>

</table>

<noinclude></noinclude>