<noinclude></noinclude> __NOTOC__

## The Presentation

This presentation is an in-depth exploration and discussion of the
Android permissions model. First, the overall design of the permissions
model will be discussed, including how/why system permissions must be
declared by an application, and then we move to creating custom
permissions for developers to use in their own multi-component
applications. The use of custom permissions to secure the various
components that are available to Android developers is the primary topic
of discussion, including the difference between public and private
component, and how to lock down Activities, Services, Broadcasts and
Broadcast Receivers, and then Content Providers, the most complex of the
components to secure.
This presentation is an adaptation of chapters three and four from
Application Security for the Android Platform (ISBN 978-1449315078),
published by O'Reilly in December 2011, of which the presenter is the
author.

## The Speakers

<table>

<tr>

<td>

### Jeff Six

![AppSecDC12-jeffsix.jpg](AppSecDC12-jeffsix.jpg
"AppSecDC12-jeffsix.jpg")Jeff is a senior security engineer at a major
financial firm based in Baltimore, Maryland, where he works to secure
customer and firm data. Prior to this position and a comparable one at
another financial services firm, Jeff worked at the National Security
Agency and other offices within the Department of Defense. He holds
bachelors and masters degrees in engineering from the University of
Delaware, and is working on his MBA at Loyola University Maryland. Jeff
has been a member of the Adjunct Faculty at the University of Delaware
since 2000, teaching classes on software development and secure coding
practices, and is the author of Application Security for the Android
Platform, published by O'Reilly Media in December 2011. Additionally, he
has been a lifeguard since 1993 and an instructor since 1995, and is an
amateur triathlete, competing at the sprint, Olympic, and 70.3
distances. Come visit at <http://jeffsix.com>.

</td>

</tr>

</table>

<noinclude></noinclude>