<noinclude></noinclude> __NOTOC__

## The Presentation

Traditional vulnerabilities like SQL Injection, buffer overflows, etc,
have well established techniques for discovery and prevention. On the
other hand, logic flaws are incredibly diverse and often unique to the
specific application or business organization. Because of this, logic
flaws have taken on a near mythical status. In the myth, logic flaws are
nearly impossible to find until the elite of the elite hackers launch an
attack to completely own the application.
The reality is far different; logic flaws are not the complex nightmare
that many have made them out to be. This presentation will use
real-world examples to show how logic flaws are typically introduced
into an application, how they can be consistently detected during
testing, and how they can be prevented during development. Instead of
hoping for magic, repeatable processes will be outlined for each of
those items. This will prove beneficial to anyone responsible for
application security: programmers, architects, managers, and pen
testers.

## The Speakers

<table>

<tr>

<td>

### David Byrne

![Owasp_logo_normal.jpg](Owasp_logo_normal.jpg
"Owasp_logo_normal.jpg")Bio TBA

</td>

</tr>

<tr>

<td>

### Charles Henderson

![AppSecDC12-henderson.jpg](AppSecDC12-henderson.jpg
"AppSecDC12-henderson.jpg")Charles Henderson, Director of Application
Security Services for SpiderLabs at Trustwave

Charles Henderson began his career in computer security in 1993,
specializing in penetration testing as well as security and
vulnerability research. As Director of Application Security Services at
SpiderLabs, he leads the team responsible for Application Penetration
Testing, Code Review, Secure Development Training, and other elite
application security consulting services.

Prior to joining SpiderLabs, Henderson ran his own boutique application
security testing firm. Henderson's firm provided offensive security
services to a wide variety of clients in the United States and Europe.

Henderson speaks frequently at major industry events and conferences,
including BlackHat, DEF CON, AppSec US, AppSec EU, AppSec APAC, SOURCE,
and the International Association of Financial Crime Investigators
convention.

</td>

</tr>

</table>

<noinclude></noinclude>