<noinclude></noinclude> __NOTOC__

## The Presentation

In order to fulfill the call of _building in security and making it
part of the DNA of the organization', we need people with the right
level of skills, knowledge and mindset. But what would such a team look
like? Are they architects or are they engineers? How would you develop
such a team? Where do you find the people who are best suited for these
roles? What are the questions that you ask them, and what should an
organization expect of them? And perhaps more importantly, how do you
keep challenging them and building their skills so they want to stay
with your organization? Michele will pull from her 22 years experience
to bring perspectives as both a senior member on the Corporate Security
Team who has mentored and trained many IT Security professionals, as
well as her most recent experience as Cisco's Senior Information
Security Architect with a Human Resources IT group.

## The Speakers

<table>

<tr>

<td>

### Michele Guel

![AppSecDC12-Guel.jpg](AppSecDC12-Guel.jpg "AppSecDC12-Guel.jpg")Michele
D. Guel Distinguished IT Engineer/Senior Security Architect Cisco
Systems

Michele's passion is to inspire, lead and mentor people. Prior to
joining Cisco, Michele spent 11 years at NASA Ames Research Center in
multiple roles. In her last role, she formulated, founded and headed the
information security program for the Numerical Aerodynamic Simulation
(NAS) Facility at Ames Research Center.

She joined Cisco in March 1996 as the founding member of Cisco's
internal security team, which is now the Corporate Security Programs
Office. During her 16 years at Cisco, she has had the opportunity to
work on all facets of information and network security. In 2009 Michele
founded the Security Knowledge Empowerment (SKE) program which is geared
towards growing and developing security knowledge within Cisco IT. In
the fall of 2010 Michele was promoted to the level of Distinguished IT
Engineer, one of 14 in all of Cisco IT and the first and only female
within Cisco IT.

Outside of Cisco, Michele has been an avid participant, speaker,
teacher, influencer and evangelist in the cyber security industry for
over 22 years. Her most recent work focuses on developing & codifying
the practice and art of Information Security Engineering & Architecture.
Her motto is all about 'Building it in and not bolting it on'

Michele has B.A., in Mathematics with a minor in Cybernetic Systems, and
has also completed a two-year program in Biblical Studies.

</td>

</tr>

</table>

<noinclude></noinclude>