<noinclude></noinclude> __NOTOC__

## The Presentation

Having travelled over 100K miles internationally during the past 9
months, the topic of mobile security while abroad was on my radar. I
took some precautions myself and jotted down some ideas to discuss with
my peers. Then one of my clients asked me to come up with a solution for
their executives while traveling to locations that would benefit greatly
from their intellectual property. This presentation covers the lessons
learned while securing mobile devices for both the enterprise and
consumer while outside the 50 states. Areas of particular interest will
be common threats and attacks and the REALISTIC steps you can take to
reduce your attack surface and return your IP home safely. We'll also
cover what to do when your primary safeguards fail or end up in a toilet
somewhere...
(Additional information not in the abstract - This will be a
significantly updated version of the presentation from the one I
presented at TakeDownCon Las Vegas 2011. I will have traveled
extensively in Australia and Asia \[24 days in Feb 2012\] before giving
this presentation and will update it with my research and observations
and extend recommendations and areas of further interest)

## The Speakers

<table>

<tr>

<td>

### Justin Morehouse

![AppSecDC12-Morehouse.jpg](AppSecDC12-Morehouse.jpg
"AppSecDC12-Morehouse.jpg")Justin Morehouse, Founder & Principal @
GuidePoint Security _ Justin has been working in the information
security field for over 11 years, primarily focusing on the areas of
attack and penetration. He has performed hundreds of security
assessments for Fortune 100 companies and Federal government agencies.
Before joining GuidePoint, Justin was the assessment lead at one of the
nation's largest retailers. He has developed numerous tools including
PassiveRecon and GuestStealer, and has spoken at DEF CON, EntNet, ISSA,
ISACA, OWASP, ShmooCon and TakeDownCon conferences. He holds a Bachelors
degree from The George Washington University and a Masters degree in
Information Assurance from Norwich University. Justin is currently an
Adjunct Professor at DeVry University, leads the OWASP Tampa Chapter,
and recently co-authored the book, "Securing the Smart Grid: Next
Generation Power Grid Security."

</td>

</tr>

</table>

<noinclude></noinclude>