<noinclude></noinclude> __NOTOC__

## The Presentation

I explain the decision-making process of the customer during
proof-of-concept, pilot and eventual deployment of a distributed Web App
Firewall (dWAF). Post-deployment, I go through the care and feeding of a
dWAF protecting resources living in the public cloud, from technical
hiccups and tradeoffs to integration in the Dev/QA/Production processes
of the security lifecycle of a web app firewall. The talk will be 45
minutes including questions and answers.

## The Speakers

<table>

<tr>

<td>

### Alexander Meisel

![AppSecDC12-Meisel.jpg](AppSecDC12-Meisel.jpg "AppSecDC12-Meisel.jpg")A
member of OWASP Germany, Alexander Meisel was CTO and co-founder of 'art
of defence'. He currently is charge of the development for the web
application firewall product at Riverbed. His interest and expertise in
the area of security dates back to his thesis in which he wrote about
avoiding and tracing distributed denial-of-service attacks. He worked
for a Swiss IT service provider as a Web security expert; later he
joined LINX, Europe's largest Internet exchange, where he took care of
member network security issues. After working for three years as a
senior consultant designing and implementing large Web farms, including
security audits with a leading traffic management company, Alexander
switched to the SPX Corporation, where he was the main project manager
for Web application solutions in the SAP area. In 2005 he founded 'art
of defence' in Germany and developed a truly distributed web application
firewall product for high performance environments. The company has been
acquired in 2011 by Zeus Technology which has shortly after been
acquired by Riverbed Technology. Alex is one of the major contributors
to OWASP's whitepaper 'Best Practices Guide: Web Application Firewalls,'
which was released by the OWASP Germany Chapter has been translated into
English, French, and Chinese. He is a regular speaker at OWASP
conferences and meetings world wide mostly with a focus on web
application security, scalability and performance.

</td>

</tr>

</table>

<noinclude></noinclude>