<noinclude></noinclude> __NOTOC__

## The Presentation

Browser's architecture and usage are ever changing in today's world.
Browser cannot be considered a thin client in this new era, it is very
much a thick client and capable of loading very interesting
applications. Ajax, RIA (Adobe), Silverlight and HTML5 are key
ingredients of next generation applications. Document Object Model (DOM)
is the most critical component of the browser; it allows various
different technologies to glue at a single point. DOM is emerging as a
potential battlefield for future application and can be considered as an
interesting entry point. DOM can be attacked and exploited if it is
implemented poorly across client side application. DOMJacking is an
interesting vector and allows exploitation of various different
interesting tags like object. Object tag holds application components
like flash, Silverlight, applet etc. It is possible to hijack DOM and
create various abuse cases and scenario. In this talk we are going to
cover attack vectors encompassing DOM which can lead to exploitation of
Browser components like HTML5, RIA and Silverlight. We will be covering
various interesting concepts, threat vectors and innovative defense
mechanism along with real life cases and demos.

## The Speakers

<table>

<tr>

<td>

### Shreeraj Shah

![AppSecDC12-sheeraj.jpg](AppSecDC12-sheeraj.jpg
"AppSecDC12-sheeraj.jpg")Shreeraj Shah, (B.E., MSCS, MBA) is the founder
of Blueinfy, a company that provides application security services.
Prior to founding Blueinfy, he was founder and board member at Net
Square. He also worked with Foundstone (McAfee), Chase Manhattan Bank
and IBM in security space. He is also the author of popular books like
Web 2.0 Security, Hacking Web Services and Web Hacking: Attacks and
Defense. In addition, he has published several advisories, tools, and
whitepapers, and has presented at numerous conferences including RSA,
AusCERT, InfosecWorld (Misti), HackInTheBox, Blackhat, OSCON, Bellua,
Syscan, ISACA etc. His articles are regularly published on
Securityfocus, InformIT, DevX, O'reilly, HNS. His work has been quoted
on BBC, Dark Reading, Bank Technology as an expert.

</td>

</tr>

</table>

<noinclude></noinclude>