<noinclude></noinclude> __NOTOC__

## The Presentation

The concept of dynamic application scanning testing (DAST) exporting
data that is then imported into a web application firewall (WAF) for
targeted remediation is not new. While this concept is certainly
attractive to show risk reduction and reducing the time-to-fix metric,
it is important to realize that you are not constrained to a "one way"
data flow. WAFs have access to a tremendous amount of information that
it can share with DAST to aid in application coverage and initiating
on-demand assessments of new or change resources. This presentation will
highlight how DASTs and WAFs can achieve a synergistic effect by
dynamically sharing data. During the presentation, a working integration
between the Arachni web application security scanner framework and the
ModSecurity web application firewall will be presented.

## The Speakers

<table>

<tr>

<td>

### Ryan Barnett

![AppSecDC12-Ryan_Barnett.jpg](AppSecDC12-Ryan_Barnett.jpg
"AppSecDC12-Ryan_Barnett.jpg")Ryan C. Barnett is a senior security
researcher on Trustwave's SpiderLabs Research Team where he specializes
in web application defense. He is a SANS Institute certified instructor
and a member of both the Top 20 Vulnerabilities and CWE/SANS Top 25 Most
Dangerous Programming Errors teams. In addition to working with SANS, he
is also a WASC Member where he leads the Web Hacking Incidents Database
(WHID) and Distributed Web Honeypots Projects and is also the OWASP
ModSecurity Core Rule Set (CRS) project leader. Mr. Barnett has also
authored a Web security book for Addison/Wesley Publishing entitled
Preventing Web Attacks with Apache. Twitter account - @ryancbarnett

</td>

</tr>

</table>

<noinclude></noinclude>