<noinclude></noinclude> __NOTOC__

## The Panelists

### Ron Ross

Dr. Ron Ross is a senior computer scientist and information security
researcher at the National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST).
His current areas of specialization include security requirements
definition, testing and evaluation, risk management, and information
assurance. Dr. Ross leads the Federal Information Security Management
Act (FISMA) Implementation Project, which includes the development of
security standards and guidelines for the federal government,
contractors, and the U.S. critical information infrastructure. His
recent publications include Federal Information Processing Standards
(FIPS) Publication 199 (security categorization standard), FIPS
Publication 200 (security requirements standard), NIST Special
Publication 800-53 (security controls guideline), NIST Special
Publication 800-53A (security assessment guideline), NIST Special
Publication 800-37 (certification and accreditation guideline), and NIST
Special Publication 800-39 (risk management guideline). Dr. Ross is the
principal architect of the Risk Management Framework that provides a
disciplined and structured methodology for integrating the suite of
FISMA security standards and guidelines into a comprehensive
enterprise-wide information security program. Dr. Ross also leads the
Joint Task Force Transformation Initiative Working Group, a joint
partnership with NIST, the Department of Defense, the Intelligence
Community, and the Committee on National Security Systems to develop a
unified information security framework for the federal government.

In addition to his responsibilities at NIST, Dr. Ross supports the U.S.
State Department in the international outreach program for information
security and critical infrastructure protection. Dr. Ross previously
served as the Director of the National Information Assurance
Partnership, a joint activity of NIST and the National Security Agency.
A graduate of the United States Military Academy at West Point, Dr. Ross
served in a variety of leadership and technical positions during his
twenty-year career in the United States Army. While assigned to the
National Security Agency, he received the Scientific Achievement Award
for his work on an inter-agency national security project and was
awarded the Defense Superior Service Medal upon his departure from the
agency. Dr. Ross is a three-time recipient of the Federal 100 award for
his leadership and technical contributions to critical information
security projects affecting the federal government and is a recipient of
the Department of Commerce Gold Medal Award. Dr. Ross has been inducted
into the Information Systems Security Association (ISSA) Hall of Fame
and elected to the grade of ISSA Distinguished Fellow. Dr. Ross has also
received several private sector awards for cyber security including the
Vanguard Chairmanâ€™s Award and the Symantec Cyber 7 Award. During his
twenty-year military career, Dr. Ross served as a White House aide and
as a senior technical advisor to the Department of the Army. Dr. Ross is
a graduate of the Program Management School at the Defense Systems
Management College and holds both Masters and Ph.D. degrees in Computer
Science from the United States Naval Postgraduate School.

### Joe Jarzombek

Joe Jarzombek is the Director for Software Assurance in the National
Cyber Security Division of the U.S. Department of Homeland Security
(DHS). He leads government interagency efforts with industry, academia,
and standards organizations to shift the security paradigm away from
patch management by addressing security needs in work force education
and training, more comprehensive diagnostic capabilities, and
security-enhanced development and acquisition practices. (see
<https://buildsecurityin.us-cert.gov> and <http://www.us-cert/swa>)
After retiring from the U.S. Air Force as a Lt. Col. in program
management, Joe Jarzombek worked in the cyber security industry as vice
president for product and process engineering. He served in two
software-related positions within the Office of the Secretary of Defense
prior to accepting his current DHS position. Throughout his career he
has actively lead process improvement initiatives, including serving on
the CMMI Product Development Team and later on the CMMI Steering Group.
He has continued to co-lead efforts to integrate safety and security
into integrated Capability Maturity Models (CMMs).

### Kris Britton

Kris Britton is the Director for the NSA Center for Assured Software. He
has been involved in the Information Assurance discipline for the U.S.
DoD for the last 20 years working in areas of operating system security,
database security, international security criteria, security engineering
and most recently software assurance. As the Director of the NSA Center
for Assured Software he leads a government team of analysts to promote
software assurance principles and practice to DoD and National Security
clients.

### Darren Death

TBA