<noinclude></noinclude> __NOTOC__

## The Presentation

The panel aims to explore how organizations track and improve their
coverage of vulnerabilities when they assess the software they build
and/or buy. How do your organizations select the most effective tools
and techniques to find each kind of vulnerability? What factors aid in
choosing whether or not to automate or manually seek out particular
vulnerabilities?
...finally, how does your organization track the above selection of
assessment tools and techniques, attest to review compliance, and track
quality vs cost?

## The Speakers

<table>

<tr>

<td>

### Jim Manico

![AppSecDC12-manico.jpg](AppSecDC12-manico.jpg
"AppSecDC12-manico.jpg")Jim Manico is the VP of Security Architecture
for WhiteHat Security. Jim is part of the WhiteHat Static Analysis
Software Testing (SAST) team, leading the data-driven, Web service
portion of the SAST service. He also provides secure coding and
developer awareness training for WhiteHat using his 7+ years of
experience delivering developer-training courses for SANS, Aspect
Security and others.

Jim brings 15 years of database-driven Web software development and
analysis experience to WhiteHat. He has helped deliver Web-centric
software systems for Sun Microsystem, Fox Media (MySpace), several
Fortune 500's, and major NGO financial institutions. He holds expertise
in a variety of areas, includingWeb-based J2EE development, thick-client
and applet-based Java applications, hybrid Java, C++ and Flash
applications, Web-based PHP applications, rich-media Web applications
using advanced Ajax techniques, Python REST Webservice development, and
Database technology using Oracle, MySQL and Postgres.

A host of the OWASP Podcast Series, Jim is the committee chair of the
OWASP Connections Committee and is a significant contributor to various
OWASP projects.

Jim works on the beautiful island of Kauai, Hawaii where he lives with
his wife Tracey.

</td>

</tr>

</table>

<noinclude></noinclude>