<noinclude></noinclude> __NOTOC__

## The Presentation

![Owasp_logo_normal.jpg](Owasp_logo_normal.jpg
"Owasp_logo_normal.jpg")Social networking and mobility are two of four
forces found in "Gartner¬ês Predicts 2012: Four Forces Combine to
Transform the IT Landscape special report
(http://www.gartner.com/technology/research/predicts/)". We can
personally attest to working with several businesses that have increased
spending on developing mobile (IOS and Android) applications integrated
with Facebook and Twitter presence to engage and interact their target
audience. The convergence of two - Mobile applications using Facebook
platform for authentication referrals, payments and twitter API to share
ideas, opinions and status from within the application - introduces
unique trust problems, data access and repudiation risks not planned for
by most development teams.
The talk covers mobile application security, focusing on social media
integration, for both IOS and Android. The two speakers - a security
consultant assessing several mobile apps every month and principal
security architect at a Fortune 500 responsible for mobile footprint
security _ brings diverse insight and sometimes contradictory views to
this talk. The audience will walk away with an understanding of mobile
application risks on different platforms and how to successfully design
a security program focused on developing mobile applications in a large
organization, related to emerging threats with facebook and twitter
integration. The talk will include live demonstration and interactive
participation to keep the audience engaged.

## The Speakers

Kartik Trivedi and Lenin Aboagye <noinclude></noinclude>