<noinclude></noinclude> __NOTOC__

## The Presentation

There are a number of attacks against Oracle database and in almost
every other CPU there is a shiny new exploit which allows a malicious
database user to gain DBA privileges on the back-end database.
Exploiting things over web apps via a SQL Injection vulnerability, is
not quite the same due to restrictions posed by the database. In 2010, I
showed a few attack vectors which can be used, depending upon what
privileges the database user has, to carry out advanced exploitation.
Examples of advanced exploitation include privilege escalation attacks
and OS code execution against back-end database. This talk will show new
attack vectors which will allow an attacker to carry out any old/new
exploit against oracle database via web apps. Unlike previous attack
vectors these don't require any special privileges and exist from Oracle
9i to 11g R2.

## The Speakers

<table>

<tr>

<td>

### Sumit Siddharth

![AppSecDC12-Sid.jpg](AppSecDC12-Sid.jpg "AppSecDC12-Sid.jpg")Sumit
Siddharth (sid) works as a Head of Penetration Testing for 7safe in the
UK. He specializes in Web application and database security and has over
7 years of experience with IT security. Sid has been a speaker at many
international conferences such as Black Hat, Defcon, Owasp, Troopers,
Sec-T etc. He has been an author of several white-papers, tools and
security advisories. Sid holds the prestigious CREST certification and
also runs the popular IT security blog <http://www.notsosecure.com>. He
is also a contributing author to the book SQL Injection:Attacks and
Defense (2nd Edition)

</td>

</tr>

</table>

<noinclude></noinclude>