<noinclude></noinclude> __NOTOC__

## The Presentation

Web shells _ malicious scripts that provide an attacker with the
ability to upload files, execute commands, conduct reconnaissance, and
perform other command-and-control activities on a compromised web server
_ are nothing new. They've been in the wild ever since the first web
server and application exploits reared their ugly heads over a decade
ago. Modern application security and server hardening processes have
rendered them all but obsolete tools for desperate script-kiddies,
right? Wrong. In this presentation we will discuss how web-based
backdoors continue to be leveraged by sophisticated, targeted attackers
and the challenges that they pose to forensic analysts conducting
large-scale investigations. In particular, we will focus on the usage of
web shells as a post-exploitation mechanism for maintaining persistence
in an environment _ a backup method of remote access _ rather than a
tool utilized in the initial entry vector. We will focus on the forensic
artifacts that usage of such malware leaves behind on the host and on
the network, and discuss techniques for rapidly identifying unknown
web-based malware across servers.

## The Speakers

<table>

<tr>

<td>

### Ryan Kazanciyan

![AppSecDC12-Kazanciyan.jpg](AppSecDC12-Kazanciyan.jpg
"AppSecDC12-Kazanciyan.jpg")Ryan Kazanciyan is a Principal Consultant
with Mandiant and has ten years of experience specializing in incident
response, forensic analysis, penetration testing, and web application
security. He has spent the past four years leading investigation and
remediation efforts for highly-targeted attacks affecting organizations
in the defense, technology, utilities, government, and financial
services sectors. Mr. Kazanciyan has experience with analysis of host
and network-based indicators of compromise, disk and memory forensics,
and malware identification and triage. He also has an extensive
background managing and executing large penetration testing and
application security assessments.

Mr. Kazanciyan has leveraged his consulting experience to lead training
sessions for a variety of audiences in law enforcement, the federal
government, and corporate security groups. He has taught courses on
incident response, forensic analysis, penetration testing, and web
application security. He has also presented at industry and security
conferences including Black Hat, DoD CyberCrime, ShmooCon, Infragard,
and ISACA.

</td>

</tr>

</table>

<noinclude></noinclude>