<noinclude></noinclude> __NOTOC__

## The Presentation

The current state of software security poses a very serious problem when
it comes to technology. Does the organization strive for more quality,
or quantity in uncovering critical software security defects?
Unfortunately as a result of the constraints of many security
organizations' budgets and available resources these critical components
are often mutually exclusive. Organizations shouldn't have to sacrifice
quality for quantity, or vice versa their software security programs.
While obtaining good quantity of coverage (both inside a single
application from a static and dynamic perspective and across the
enterprise application landscape) is critical to understanding the total
threat profile of an organization, the organization simply can't forego
the quality aspect because a poor test can not only provide a false
statement of compliance but create the illusion of security. So what can
organizations constrained by resources, capital and knowledge do to
balance quantity against quality in their software security programs?
How can people, process, and technologies be leveraged to effectively
balance the quantity vs. quality scale? The speaker will address this
very critical balance from a vendor-neutral, technology-agnostic
perspective, giving developers, quality analysts and security testers
the perspective necessary to provide optimal balance.

## The Speakers

<table>

<tr>

<td>

### Rafal Los

![AppSecDC12-los.jpg](AppSecDC12-los.jpg "AppSecDC12-los.jpg")Rafal Los,
Chief Security Evangelist for Hewlett-Packard Software, combines nearly
15 years of subject-matter expertise in information security with a
critical business risk management perspective. From technical research
to building and implementing enterprise application security programs,
Rafal has a track record with organizations of diverse sizes and
verticals. He is a featured speaker at events around the globe, and has
presented at events produced by OWASP, ISSA, Black Hat, and SANS among
many others. He stays active in the community by writing, speaking and
contributing research, representing HP in OWASP, the Cloud Security
Alliance and other industry groups. His blog, Following the White
Rabbit, with his unique perspective on security and risk management has
amassed a following from his industry peers, business professionals, and
even the media and can be found at <http://hp.com/go/white-rabbit>.
Prior to joining HP, Los defined what became the software security
program and served as a regional security lead at a Global Fortune 100
contributing to the global organization's security and risk-management
strategy internally and externally. Rafal prides himself on being able
to add a 'tint of corporate realism' to information security. Rafal
received his B. S. in Computer Information Systems from Concordia
University, River Forest, Ill.

</td>

</tr>

</table>

<noinclude></noinclude>