<noinclude></noinclude> __NOTOC__

## The Presentation

Web applications have not only conquered most user interfaces in
traditional IT markets, they are also quickly replacing most user
interfaces in critical control systems such as SCADA, Smart Meters,
Distribution Management, and other Smart Grid master servers. And if the
servers weren't enough, now they are starting to appear in the embedded
devices deployed in the field. This talk will discuss all the places
where web applications and web services are being used in today's modern
electrical grid. We will also discuss the challenges that penetration
testers new to critical control systems will face and how they can
successfully overcome those challenges.

## The Speakers

<table>

<tr>

<td>

### Justin Searle

![AppSecDC12-Searle.jpg](AppSecDC12-Searle.jpg
"AppSecDC12-Searle.jpg")Justin Searle is a Managing Partner of UtiliSec,
specializing in Smart Grid security architecture design and penetration
testing. Justin led the Smart Grid Security Architecture group in the
creation of NIST Interagency Report 7628 and currently plays key roles
in the Advanced Security Acceleration Project for the Smart Grid
(ASAP-SG), National Electric Sector Cybersecurity Organization Resources
(NESCOR), and Smart Grid Interoperability Panel (SGIP). Justin has
taught courses in hacking techniques, forensics, networking, and
intrusion detection for multiple universities, corporations, and
security conferences, and is currently an instructor for the SANS
Institute. In addition to electric power industry conferences, Justin
frequently presents at top security conferences such as Black Hat,
DEFCON, OWASP, and AusCERT. Justin co-leads prominent open source
projects including the Samurai Web Testing Framework, Middler, Yokoso\!,
and Laudanum. Justin has an MBA in International Technology and is a
CISSP and SANS GIAC certified Incident Handler (GCIH), Intrusion Analyst
(GCIA), and Web Application Penetration Tester (GWAPT).

</td>

</tr>

</table>

<noinclude></noinclude>