<noinclude></noinclude> __NOTOC__

## The Presentation

Cloud Computing (CC) is a distributed computing technology and thus is
not new. Similar approach has been implemented in multiuser mainframe
environment and in client-server architecture. What is completely new is
that the technology is based on distributed legal entities' environment.
Interfering computing resources and intersecting legal boundaries create
completely new environment, which challenges security research. However,
CC has been pushed and promoted by numerous providers as ready to use,
without adequate security research. Usual consideration of CC security
is based on common sense pure technical _data protection' concept,
which completely ignores legal ground. In particular, this relates to
Personal Information (PI) protection, which is mandated and regulated by
numerous US and international laws. In our research we do an attempt to
return to where CC security should be starting from _ laws and
regulations. US laws protecting Personal Information, for instance
federal HIPAA and Massachusetts MGL c.93H and 201 CMR 17.00 Standards,
do not contain direct reference to technologies, but require owners of
PI engage in certain binding relationship with service providers
concerning PI protection. Thus, laws dictate completely different
approach to CC security analysis, which should be base on whether and
how such binding relationship could be implemented. We use a term of
Chain of Trust to refer to such relationship. We need to note that tons
of publications considering PI protection in CC environment simply
ignore Chain of Trust matter. How often have we seen exact quote of a
law and then interpretation concerning CC related PI protection issues
and finally consideration of certain CC solution lawfulness? Not really
often, or may be not at all. Our presentation returns the consideration
of CC security to the legal ground. Our starting point is three laws
covering one of the most vulnerable and wide industry _ health care _
HIPPA Security Rule and HITECH Act, and entire state of Massachusetts _
201 CMR 17.00 Standards. Our research is based on the consideration of
Service Models (SaaS, PaaS and IaaS) and Deployment Models (Private
Cloud, Public Cloud and Hybrid Cloud) as they described in two NIST
publications _ 800-144 and 800-146. Well organized, but missing serious
consideration of PI protecting laws implication on CC services, these
documents form a ground for our security research. Each of Service
Models' and Deployment Models' legitimacy is considered on the basis of
three above mentioned laws, and exact legal obstacles in their
implementation are identified. We define our Chain of Trust concept in
terms of requiring certain relationship between PI owner and service
provider. Following that, we consider necessary binding agreements
between PI owner and service provider, and if and how such relationship
could be implemented by currently available managerial and technical
security means. Finally, we consider some aspects of possible government
audit of PI protection compliance. We return to the compliance original
meaning instead of widely used but incorrect marketing driven
interpretation. Our research provides practical ground and advising how
to deal with required Chain of Trust in protecting of personal
information in CC environment, and how to avoid future problems during
government compliance audit.

## The Speakers

<table>

<tr>

<td>

### Mikhail Utin

![AppSecDC12-Mikhail_utin.jpg](AppSecDC12-Mikhail_utin.jpg
"AppSecDC12-Mikhail_utin.jpg")Mikhail Utin: I was born in Russia in
1948. Finished basic engineering education in 1975 and got MA in
Computer Science and Electrical Engineering. My career in Russia
includes working for research and engineering organizations. I got Ph.D.
in Computer Science in 1988 from then Academy of Science of the USSR. I
was one of first entrepreneurs in Russia forming a private company. From
1988 to 1990 we successfully worked in emerging Russia private sector as
Information Technology company. I had several USSR patents and published
numerous articles. I emigrated in the US in 1990 to continue my
professional career and to escape from political turmoil. Here, in the
US I worked in information technology and information security fields
for numerous companies and organizations including contracting for US
government. I formed my own company for IT and IT security consulting in
1998. I am (ISC)2 certified professional, and participate in ISSA as
well. I publish articles on Internet and professional journals, and
proud reviewer of articles submitted to (ISC)2 Information Security
Journal: A Global Perspective. Our research on SMB security problems to
comply with US laws and regulations _US experience: Laws, Compliance,
and Real Life - When everything seems right but simply does not work'
was presented on DeepSec 2011. My current focus on IT security research
is security governance, regulations and management affecting technology
and security status.

</td>

</tr>

</table>

<noinclude></noinclude>