<noinclude></noinclude> __NOTOC__

## The Presentation

Join me again and take a break from those talks that overstimulate your
brain with cool technical details but provide little use to your day to
day job. Part two of this talk STILL has none of that. We are going to
continue your lessons in python and teach you more python skills to use
in your pentests. Join one of the SamuraiWTF project leads and learn how
to interact with websites using python scripts and python shells. This
time we'll be building on the various HTTP requests you learned the
first round and be focusing one how you can effectively use those
requests in your own custom python tools. We'll cover more regular
expresses, cover the ins and outs of multi-threaded operations, and
discuss the best ways to analyze all those results. We'll also revisit
the PyCIT and the new templates that have been added.
By the way, don't forget your laptop if you want to follow along. ;-)

## The Speakers

<table>

<tr>

<td>

### Justin Searle

![AppSecDC12-Searle.jpg](AppSecDC12-Searle.jpg
"AppSecDC12-Searle.jpg")Justin Searle is a Managing Partner of UtiliSec,
specializing in Smart Grid security architecture design and penetration
testing. Justin led the Smart Grid Security Architecture group in the
creation of NIST Interagency Report 7628 and currently plays key roles
in the Advanced Security Acceleration Project for the Smart Grid
(ASAP-SG), National Electric Sector Cybersecurity Organization Resources
(NESCOR), and Smart Grid Interoperability Panel (SGIP). Justin has
taught courses in hacking techniques, forensics, networking, and
intrusion detection for multiple universities, corporations, and
security conferences, and is currently an instructor for the SANS
Institute. In addition to electric power industry conferences, Justin
frequently presents at top security conferences such as Black Hat,
DEFCON, OWASP, and AusCERT. Justin co-leads prominent open source
projects including the Samurai Web Testing Framework, Middler, Yokoso\!,
and Laudanum. Justin has an MBA in International Technology and is a
CISSP and SANS GIAC certified Incident Handler (GCIH), Intrusion Analyst
(GCIA), and Web Application Penetration Tester (GWAPT).

</td>

</tr>

</table>

<noinclude></noinclude>