<noinclude></noinclude> __NOTOC__

## The Presentation

To better enable software stakeholders to reduce risks attributable to
the most significant exploitable software weaknesses relevant to
specific business/mission domains and technologies, DHS NCSD SwA program
sponsored the development of the Common Weakness Risk Analysis Framework
(CWRAF) that uses the Common Weakness Scoring System (CWSS) scoring
criteria with CWE to provide consistent measures for prioritizing risk
mitigation efforts and focusing secure coding practices; enabling better
informed decision-making and acquisition of more resilient software
products and services. CWRAF enables targeted "Top-N" CWE lists that are
relevant to the technologies used within specific business domains. Past
Top 25 CWE lists have represented community collaboration efforts to
prioritize the most exploitable constructs that make software vulnerable
to attack or failure. Now, with CWRAF business domains can use the
scoring criteria with CWE to identify the exploitable weaknesses that
are most significant to them given what their software does for their
business.
The Common Weakness Enumeration (CWE) defines a unified, measurable set
of software weaknesses that is enabling more effective discussion,
description, selection, and use of software security tools and services
that detect weaknesses in software. To encourage and recognize use of
CWEs, MITRE has established the CWE Compatibility and Effectiveness
Program. Phases 1 and 2 of the program establish that tool warnings
accurately map to CWEs. Phase 3 establishes which CWEs a tool (or
capability) can identify and locate via testing. In this session, we
propose (1) ideas on what constitutes acceptable fundamental and broad
test sets for Phase 3, and (2) that the SAMATE Reference Dataset (SRD)
be the repository and access for such test sets.
The CWE Coverage Claims Representation (CCR) is a lightweight schema
that allows a software analysis tool and/or service provider to state
claims as to those CWEs that their technology or process can discover.
This session is targeted to tool/service vendors and tool/service
consumers with the goal of refining the CCR model for public release.
Issues to be addressed include the specificity of claims,
_anti-claims,' and key use-cases for CCR.

## The Speakers

<table>

<tr>

<td>

### Joe Jarzombek

![AppSecDC12-JoeJarzombek.jpg](AppSecDC12-JoeJarzombek.jpg
"AppSecDC12-JoeJarzombek.jpg")Joe Jarzombek is the Director for Software
Assurance within the National Cyber Security Division of the Department
of Homeland Security. In this role he leads government interagency
efforts with industry, academia, and standards organizations in
addressing security needs in work force education and training, more
comprehensive diagnostic capabilities, and security-enhanced development
and acquisition practices. Joe served in the U.S. Air Force as a
Lieutenant Colonel in program management. After retiring from the Air
Force, he worked in the cyber security industry as vice president for
product and process engineering. Joe also served in two software-related
positions within the Office of the Secretary of Defense prior to
accepting his current DHS position. He is a Project Management
Professional (PMP) and a Certified Secure Software Lifecycle
Professional (CSSLP) As an active member of Toastmasters International,
Joe Jarzombek has served as International Director, and he is currently
serving as Region Advisor Marketing.

</td>

</tr>

<tr>

<td>

### Bob Martin

![AppSecDC12-BobMartin.jpg](AppSecDC12-BobMartin.jpg
"AppSecDC12-BobMartin.jpg")Robert A. Martin is a Principal Engineer at
MITRE, a company that works in partnership with the government to
address issues of critical national importance. For the past 18 years,
Robert's efforts focused on the interplay of risk management, cyber
security, and quality assessment. The majority of this time has been
spent working on the CVE, OVAL, MAEC, CAPEC and CWE security standards
initiatives in addition to basic quality measurement and management.
Robert is a frequent speaker on the various security and quality issues
surrounding information technology systems and has published numerous
papers on these topics. Robert joined MITRE in 1981 with a BS and MS in
EE from RPI, later he earned an MBA from Babson College. He is a member
of the ACM, AFCEA, IEEE, and the IEEE Computer Society.

</td>

</tr>

<tr>

<td>

### Tom Brennan

![AppSecDC12-Brennan.jpg](AppSecDC12-Brennan.jpg
"AppSecDC12-Brennan.jpg") Tom is the Director at Trustwave SpiderLabs
where he is responsible for global strategic initiatives. Since 2004,
Tom has been a long time volunteer to the OWASP Foundation as a
contributor, project leader, chapter leader and since 2007 a volunteer
to the Board of Directors of OWASP Foundation. Tom has software an
extensive information security background spanning twenty years and is
frequently invited to speak at conferences around the world on a better
approach.

</td>

</tr>

<tr>

<td>

### Walter Houser

![Owasp_logo_normal.jpg](Owasp_logo_normal.jpg
"Owasp_logo_normal.jpg")Bio

</td>

</tr>

<tr>

<td>

</td>

</tr>

</table>

<noinclude></noinclude>