<noinclude></noinclude> __NOTOC__

## The Presentation

Why is the security industry so full of fail? We spend millions of
dollars on firewalls, IPS, IDS, DLP, professional penetration tests and
assessments, vulnerability and compliance tools and at the end of the
day, the weakest link is the user and his or her inability to make the
right choices. It's enough to make a security engineer cry. The one
thing you can depend upon in an enterprise is that many of our users,
even with training, will still make the wrong choices. They still click
on links they shouldn't, respond to phishing scams, open documents
without thinking, post too much information on Twitter and Facebook, use
their pet's name as passwords, etc'. But what if this isn't because
users hate us or are too stupid? What if all our complaints about not
being heard and our instructions regarding the best security practices
have more to do with our failure to understand modern neuroscience and
the human mind's resistance to change?

## The Speakers

<table>

<tr>

<td>

### Michele Chubirka

![AppSecDC12-Chubirka.jpg](AppSecDC12-Chubirka.jpg
"AppSecDC12-Chubirka.jpg")Michele Chubirka, aka Mrs. Y, a senior network
security engineer with 15 years of IT experience, currently works for a
financial services provider. In her free time, she blogs and contributes
to podcasts on the subject of IT security for Packet Pushers
<http://packetpushers.net/>. She also likes long walks in hubsites,
traveling to security conferences, and spending extended hours in the
Bat Cave. Sincerely believes that every problem can be solved with a
"for" loop.

</td>

</tr>

</table>

<noinclude></noinclude>