<noinclude></noinclude> __NOTOC__

## The Presentation

Author: Francis Cianfrocca, Bayshore Networks
The actual practice of information assurance in industrial control
systems (ICS) has changed very little in recent years, even as
recognition and awareness of vulnerabilities have risen sharply and
statutory/regulatory pressures have intensified. In this presentation,
we identify the key reasons for this mismatch between need and action.
We show that, while business and organizational issues get much of the
attention, a far more serious gap has opened between system
vulnerabilities (including the capabilities of attackers) and
commonly-deployed cyber security technology.
The technology gap is widening rapidly as organizations seek 1) broader
integration of industrial control systems with enterprise IT; and 2)
increased sharing of operational data across organizational
boundaries.
Standard practice and regulations generally view the assurance of ICS
integrity/availability as either an access-control problem or a problem
that encrypted streams can solve. This approach has value, but is quite
inadequate to address both 1) the expanding scale of potential attacks
against civil infrastructure; and 2) the potential monetary and societal
losses from successful attacks. The current state of ICS security
parallels that of enterprise IT security in the past, with respect to
the differences between the network (Layer-3) and the application
(Layer-7) approaches. History shows that network-level security failed
to adequately protect enterprise applications. ICS security is at that
point today.
We present experience-based results from new technologies developed
and/or applied by our organization in industrial control systems. Among
the technologies to be described are 1) new data-flow protection
methodologies including flow-based heuristics; 2) improving the
detection of malicious or dangerous events within "normal" ICS data
flows; 3) architectural controls such as unidirectional flows; 4) the
value of "big-data" approaches, particularly in large-scale metasystems
such as electric power transmission and distribution; 5) how to inhibit
attacks like Stuxnet and Duqu in real-time.
We also assess the applicability of many existing OWASP recommendations
for enhancing security in enterprise IT to the ICS threat.
Use-cases will be drawn from sectors including: building/factory-floor
management; electrical grid; oil/gas; tactical/battlespace applications;
and/or any of the 18 critical infrastructure sectors as defined by the
Department of Homeland Security.

## The Speakers

<table>

<tr>

<td>

### Francis Cianfrocca

![AppSecDC12-Cianfocca.jpg](AppSecDC12-Cianfocca.jpg
"AppSecDC12-Cianfocca.jpg")Francis Cianfrocca is the founder and CEO of
Bayshore Networks LLC, in New York City. He is the inventor of
Bayshore's SingleKey, a groundbreaking information-assurance product
used for protection of corporate and industrial information systems. As
Bayshore's CEO, he has overseen SingleKey's acceptance by a range of
major enterprises, and the establishment of strong management and
technical teams.

Francis founded Tempest Software Inc. in 1995 to develop middleware
products for advanced enterprise applications. The company flourished
under his leadership, growing to $8 million in sales in its first five
years. In 1991 he founded Heldenleben Corporation, where he developed
HeldenPort, the world's first compiler for a graphical 4GL. The product
was licensed and marketed to over 40,000 developers around the world.

Prior to becoming an entrepreneur, Francis held senior technology
positions at the Bank of New York, New York Life Insurance Company, and
several other major corporations. He was the lead developer for major
enterprise systems for applications including finance, manufacturing,
treasury management, and underwriting.

Francis is a noted expert in the fields of cybersecurity,
computer-language design, compiler implementation, network
communications, large-scale distributed application architectures. He
has several issued and pending patents to his credit.

A very strong advocate of open-source software development, Francis
created several widely-used open projects, including the Ruby Net/LDAP
library, and the EventMachine high-speed network-event management
system. He has also contributed to many other projects.

A strong speaker and writer, Francis has developed a significant
following on subjects relating to technology, cybersecurity, financial
markets, and national economic and security policy. He is a regular
guest on the Coffee & Markets podcast series, and has been published in
Commentary Magazine, Human Events, and others.

Francis attended the Eastman School of Music and the University of
Michigan, majoring in music history and orchestral conducting. He began
his career at the New York City Opera, under the direction of Beverly
Sills. He and his wife Paula, a professional opera singer, reside in
Long Island City, NY. Francis is a member of the 2000 class of Henry
Crown Fellows at the Aspen Institute

</td>

</tr>

<tr>

<td>

### Bob Lam

![Owasp_logo_normal.jpg](Owasp_logo_normal.jpg
"Owasp_logo_normal.jpg")Bio TBA

</td>

</tr>

</table>

<noinclude></noinclude>