<noinclude></noinclude> __NOTOC__

## The Presentation

Cloud IT velocity is breathtaking: while most IT struggle with monthly
releases, agile IT businesses routinely conjure thousands of AWS
servers, performing over 10 deploys per day. This agility delights the
business and terrifies security. DevOps aligns the former adversaries of
Dev and Ops. Security needs to enable ludicrous speed or be left behind.
We make a case for Rugged DevOps as an answer.

## The Speakers

<table>

<tr>

<td>

### Joshua Corman

![AppSecDC12-Corman.jpg](AppSecDC12-Corman.jpg
"AppSecDC12-Corman.jpg")Joshua Corman is the Director of Security
Intelligence for Akamai Technologies and has more than a decade of
experience with security and networking software. Most recently he
served as Research Director for Enterprise Security at The 451 Group
following his time as Principal Security Strategist for IBM Internet
Security Systems. Mr. Corman's research cuts across sectors to the core
security challenges plaguing the IT industry, and helps to drive
evolutionary strategies toward emerging technologies and shifting
economics. His research and education efforts won him the title of Top
Influencer of IT by NetworkWold magazine in 2009.

Mr. Corman is a candid and highly-coveted speaker with engagements at
leading industry events such as RSA, DEFCON, Interop, ISACA, and SANS.
As a staunch advocate for CISOs, Corman also serves as a Fellow with the
Ponemon Institute, on the Faculty for IANS, and co-founded Rugged
Software _ a value-based initiative to raise awareness and usher in an
era of secure digital infrastructure. Corman received his bachelor's
degree in philosophy, graduating Phi Beta Kappa and summa cum laude,
from the University of New Hampshire. He resides with his wife and two
daughters in New Hampshire.

Corman can be found on twitter @joshcorman and on his blog at
<http://blog.cognitivedissidents.com/>

</td>

</tr>

</table>

<noinclude></noinclude>