<noinclude></noinclude> __NOTOC__

## The Presentation

Building a worldwide marketplace at scale, Etsy has overcome a number of
application security challenges. This presentation will focus on new and
interesting approaches to application security problems posed by a
continuous deployment environment. Specifically, this presentation will
cover useful security systems such as automatic vulnerability and
application fault detection, effective platform defenses for XSS/SQLi,
practical security alerting mechanisms, and visualizations of security
related data. This talk demonstrates how to create these systems using
free tools that improve security posture without commercial security
products.

## The Speakers

<table>

<tr>

<td>

### Zane Lackey

![Owasp_logo_normal.jpg](Owasp_logo_normal.jpg
"Owasp_logo_normal.jpg")Zane Lackey leads the application security group
at Etsy, the world's handmade marketplace. Prior to Etsy, Zane was a
Senior Security Consultant at iSEC Partners with a focus in the fields
of mobile and web application security.

His research has been featured in notable media outlets such as the BBC,
Associated Press, Forbes, Wired, CNET, SC Magazine and numerous others.
A frequent speaker at top industry conferences, he has presented at
BlackHat, RSA, Microsoft BlueHat, Toorcon, DeepSec, MEITSEC, YSTS, and
in 2010 was named as one of 12 prominent security researchers by Network
World magazine.

He is a contributing author of Mobile Application Security
(McGraw-Hill), a co-author of Hacking Exposed: Web 2.0 (McGraw-Hill),
and a contributing author/technical editor of Hacking VoIP (No Starch
Press). He holds a Bachelor of Arts in Economics with a minor in
Computer Science from the University of California, Davis.

</td>

</tr>

</table>

<noinclude></noinclude>