<noinclude></noinclude> __NOTOC__

## The Presentation

Kevin Johnson, John Sawyer and Tom Eston have spent quite a bit of time
evaluating mobile applications in their respective jobs. In this
presentation they will provide the audience an understanding of how to
evaluate mobile applications, examples of how things have been done
wrong and an understanding of how you can perform this testing within
your organization.
This talk will work with applications from the top three main platforms;
iOS, Android and Blackberry. Kevin, Tom and John have used a variety of
the top 25 applications for each of these platforms to provide real
world examples of the problems applications face.

## The Speakers

<table>

<tr>

<td>

### Tom Eston

![AppSecDC12-Eston.jpg](AppSecDC12-Eston.jpg "AppSecDC12-Eston.jpg")Tom
Eston is the Manager of the Profiling and Penetration Team at
SecureState. Tom leads a team of highly skilled penetration testers that
provide attack and penetration testing services for SecureState's
clients. Tom focuses much of his research on new technologies such as
social media and mobile devices. He develops and improves penetration
testing methodologies and works to align them with industry standards.
He is also the founder of SocialMediaSecurity.com which is an open
source community dedicated to exposing the insecurities of social media.
Tom is a security blogger, co-host of the Security Justice and Social
Media Security podcasts and is a frequent speaker at security user
groups and national conferences including Black Hat USA, DEFCON,
DerbyCon, Notacon, SANS, OWASP AppSec and ShmooCon.

</td>

</tr>

<tr>

<td>

### Kevin Johnson

![Owasp_logo_normal.jpg](Owasp_logo_normal.jpg
"Owasp_logo_normal.jpg")Bio TBA

</td>

</tr>

<tr>

<td>

### John Sawyer

![AppSecDC12-Sawyer.jpg](AppSecDC12-Sawyer.jpg
"AppSecDC12-Sawyer.jpg")John Sawyer is a Senior Security Analyst with
InGuardians specializing in network and web application penetration
testing. John's experience in enterprise IT security includes
penetration testing, system and network hardening, intrusion analysis,
and digital forensics.

John has developed and taught cyber security training for a large
university and spoken at events for industry and law enforcement. He has
consulted with federal, state, and local law enforcement agencies on
malware analysis, hacker attacks, and digital forensics. John is the
author of the popular blog, "Evil Bytes", at DarkReading.com, and a
member of the winning team from DEF CON 14 and 15's Capture the Flag
competition.

</td>

</tr>

</table>

<noinclude></noinclude>