<noinclude></noinclude> __NOTOC__

## The Presentation

With the recent rise in high-profile corporate web application attacks,
many organizations have made it a priority to build security into their
internal software development lifecycle. Using static analysis to
identify software security bugs is a common element in virtually all
software security programs. While there are numerous commercial static
analysis products that focus on security, they often involve high price
tags, complex/unreasonable licensing models, steep learning curves, and
can be cumbersome to integrate with existing processes.
Luckily, using static analysis to identify software bugs is not a new
paradigm. For years, developers have used static analysis tools to
identifying code quality issues. While these tools may not be
specifically designed for identifying security bugs, in many cases their
underlying analysis engine can be adapted to do so with custom rules.
This presentation will discuss how custom security rules can be added to
existing code quality tools to identify potential software security
bugs. In many cases, developers are already familiar with these tools
and run them during development on a regular basis. Armed with security
rulesets, the tools can also be valuable to security code auditors and
penetration testers. Writing custom software security rules for the
popular Java code scanning tool PMD will be the focus of the
presentation.

## The Speakers

<table>

<tr>

<td>

### Joe Hemler

![Owasp_logo_normal.jpg](Owasp_logo_normal.jpg
"Owasp_logo_normal.jpg")Joseph Hemler is a Co-Founder and Lead Security
Engineer at Gotham Digital Science (GDS), an information security
consulting firm that works with clients to identify, prevent, and manage
security risks. Mr. Hemler has over 11 years experience working in the
security industry performing penetration testing, security code review,
and a variety of other secure development services. Prior to founding
GDS in 2005, Mr. Hemler was a senior security engineer at Ernst &
Young's Advanced Security Center. Mr. Hemler has authored source code
analysis tools and written numerous scripts for identifying and
exploiting network and web application vulnerabilities. He is a
contributing author to Network Security Tools (O'Reilly 2005) and SQL
Injection Attacks and Defense (Syngress March 2009), frequently blogs on
the GDS Security Blog, and often speaks at various information security
conferences and training seminars. Mr. Hemler graduated with a Bachelors
of Business Administration from the University of Notre Dame.

</td>

</tr>

</table>

<noinclude></noinclude>