<noinclude></noinclude> __NOTOC__

## The Presentation

Many organizations have started application security programs to focus
on finding and subsequently preventing vulnerabilities in their custom
code. However, the widespread use of common libraries introduces risks
that are widely ignored and unappreciated. In this study, we analyze
over 113 million library downloads from the Maven Central repository of
the 31 most popular Java frameworks and security libraries by over
500,000 companies. The data show that there are a surprising amount of
libraries with known vulnerabilities in common use. We also conclude
that most organizations do not appear to have a strong process in place
for ensuring that the libraries they rely on are up-to-date and free
from known vulnerabilities.

## The Speakers

<table>

<tr>

<td>

### Arshan Dabirsiaghi

![Owasp_logo_normal.jpg](Owasp_logo_normal.jpg
"Owasp_logo_normal.jpg")Bio TBA

</td>

</tr>

<tr>

<td>

### Jeff Williams

![AppSecDC12-Williams.jpg](AppSecDC12-Williams.jpg
"AppSecDC12-Williams.jpg")As a pioneer in the software development and
security field, Jeff Williams is one of the world's foremost experts on
application security. Williams is the co-founder and CEO of Aspect
Security, a consulting firm focused exclusively on application security
that supports a worldwide clientele with critical applications in the
government, defense, financial, healthcare, services and retail sectors.
Williams and his team at Aspect Security are founding members of the
Open Web Application Security Project (OWASP), through which Williams
has made industry contributions including: the OWASP Top Ten, Enterprise
Security API (ESAPI), Application Security Verification Standard (ASVS),
Risk Rating Methodology and WebGoat. Williams holds advanced degrees in
psychology, computer science and human factors, and graduated cum laude
from Georgetown Law.

</td>

</tr>

</table>

<noinclude></noinclude>