<noinclude></noinclude> __NOTOC__

## The Presentation

Automated tools for application security are either "static" (SAST) or
"dynamic" (DAST). But recently a new class of "interactive" or
"intrinsic" (IAST) tools have emerged -- some are calling them "hybrid"
analysis tools. Is this finally application security automation that
works? Or is it just another round of hype and false alarms. In this
talk, Jeff will explain IAST technology and how it can be used to find
security vulnerabilities. We'll cover the full range of IAST approaches,
from simple URL-to-code informers, to dynamic test generators, and all
the way to fully integrated vulnerability detectors. How can we compare
the performance of these new tools? Jeff will share experiences using
the static analysis test suite from the NSA to evaluate tool results.
Finally, we'll discuss some of the implications of detecting
vulnerabilities in running applications, from getting better security
results from QA teams to the possibility of a future where all apps
(web, mobile, cloud, desktop, etc) detect and report their own
vulnerabilities while they are being used.

## The Speakers

<table>

<tr>

<td>

### Jeff Williams

![AppSecDC12-Williams.jpg](AppSecDC12-Williams.jpg
"AppSecDC12-Williams.jpg")As a pioneer in the software development and
security field, Jeff Williams is one of the world's foremost experts on
application security. Williams is the co-founder and CEO of Aspect
Security, a consulting firm focused exclusively on application security
that supports a worldwide clientele with critical applications in the
government, defense, financial, healthcare, services and retail sectors.
Williams and his team at Aspect Security are founding members of the
Open Web Application Security Project (OWASP), through which Williams
has made industry contributions including: the OWASP Top Ten, Enterprise
Security API (ESAPI), Application Security Verification Standard (ASVS),
Risk Rating Methodology and WebGoat. Williams holds advanced degrees in
psychology, computer science and human factors, and graduated cum laude
from Georgetown Law.

</td>

</tr>

</table>

<noinclude></noinclude>