<noinclude></noinclude> __NOTOC__

## The Presentation

In 2011 ICS-CERT experienced a dramatic increase in reported disclosures
of vulnerabilities in industrial control system (ICS) products. Security
researchers (white, gray, and black hats) across the globe are
increasing their research in the ICS product arena and the potential
impact to critical infrastructure. Coordinated vulnerability disclosures
of control system products are increasing rapidly, but so are the
instances of unanticipated or full disclosures.
The once obscure world of ICS security is now a hot topic in the media
and around the water cooler. This presentation will discuss the daunting
trends in the disclosure of ICS product vulnerabilities, who is
disclosing new vulnerabilities, and the coordination process used by
ICS-CERT. We will also discuss what concerning trends ICS-CERT is
seeing, including recent hacktivist and anarchist group activity.

## The Speakers

<table>

<tr>

<td>

### Kevin Hemsley

![Owasp_logo_normal.jpg](Owasp_logo_normal.jpg
"Owasp_logo_normal.jpg")Kevin Hemsley is the Vulnerability Handling Lead
for the US Department of Homeland Security's Industrial Control System
Cyber Emergency Response Team (ICS-CERT). ICS-CERT provides a control
system security focus to improve the cyber security posture and assist
owners and operators of US critical infrastructure assets. Kevin leads
the ICS-CERT Vulnerability Handling team that works with independent
security researchers and control system vendors from around the world to
identify and mitigate vulnerabilities in control system products. Kevin
has more than 20 years experience in cyber security ranging from network
security to control system and SCADA security.

</td>

</tr>

</table>

<noinclude></noinclude>