<noinclude></noinclude> __NOTOC__

## The Presentation

In this talk, Kevin and Tony will outline and discuss the variety of
testing techniques and tools available for performing mobile application
penetration testing. The presentation will include technical details of
discovery and exploitation of mobile application vulnerabilities, as
well as outlining the use of MobiSec, which is a live environment used
for performing mobile penetration testing. This talk will benefit
penetration testers, mobile application developers, and mobile
administrators who are concerned about their mobile environment, and
wanting to learn new and exciting ways to assess the security of their
mobile applications.

## The Speakers

<table>

<tr>

<td>

### Tony Delagrange

![AppSecDC12-delarange.jpg](AppSecDC12-delarange.jpg
"AppSecDC12-delarange.jpg")Tony DeLaGrange is a Senior Security Analyst
with Secure Ideas, bringing over twenty-five years of information
technology experience in the healthcare and financial services
industries. For over the past decade, Tony has focused on information
security within a leading Fortune 50 financial institution, providing
the design of security reference architecture, development of
information security policies, standards, and baselines, as well as the
assessment and testing of emerging technologies. His experience includes
managing large networking and messaging environments, assessing controls
and establishing security requirements for large technology project
implementations, driving change through leading an information security
center of excellence, and influencing key technology and business
stakeholders at all levels. Most recently, Tony led a penetration team
that augmented the IT Audit program, providing a threat-based
perspective to the standard general controls audit review process. For
many years, Tony has had a keen interest in mobile security,
specifically with mobile devices within a corporate environment, and is
the project lead for the MobiSec Live Environment.

</td>

</tr>

<tr>

<td>

### Kevin Johnson

![Owasp_logo_normal.jpg](Owasp_logo_normal.jpg
"Owasp_logo_normal.jpg")Bio TBA

</td>

</tr>

</table>

<noinclude></noinclude>