<noinclude></noinclude> __NOTOC__

## The Presentation

Today's technology enabled environment has an exponentially increasing
number of paths that an adversary could take to compromise an IT product
or service. To ensure confidentiality, integrity, and availability of
the technology, security professionals must convince stakeholders to
adopt foundational and specialized security practices to ensure
trustworthiness of the product or service. Acquisition organizations and
their stakeholders are engaging in discussions about trustworthiness of
the products and services they are acquiring and are incorporating
requirements in request for proposals (RFPs) and contracts. The question
is are they choosing the language that best represents their needs or
are they simply looking for a one size fits all solution. Over the last
6 months multiple RFPs from the a diverse group of US Government
agencies included requirements for NIST IR 7622 practices, the OWASP Top
10, and SANS Top 25 CWEs, and SANS certified secure Java developers.
Recently some statements from NISTIR 7622 on ICT Supply Chain Risk
Management were found in a large government procurement and the document
is just a draft. It is clear that development teams need to be ready to
deliver against additional requirements for trustworthy technology
products and services. The session will tackle many questions related to
understanding why developers continue to make these dangerous coding
errors including how developers can work with security practitioners and
organizations to ensure the success of their business mission and
functions.

## The Speakers

<table>

<tr>

<td>

### Don Davidson

![AppSecDC12-Davidson.jpg](AppSecDC12-Davidson.jpg
"AppSecDC12-Davidson.jpg")Mr. Davidson is currently assigned to Trusted
Mission Systems and Networks (TMSN, formerly known as the Globalization
Task Force, GTF) in the Office of the Department of Defense Chief
Information Officer (DoD CIO), where he leads the outreach, S\&T
investment and standardization efforts for the White House's
Comprehensive National CyberSecurity Initiative (CNCI) task \#11 on
improving Supply Chain Risk Management for Information Communications
Technology capabilities (ICT SCRM).

He has over 37 years of federal service, to include 11 years active
duty, as well as civilian assignments in Army Research Laboratory, Army
Materiel Command, Army Secretariat, US Joint Forces Command,
OUSD-Acquisition, Technology & Logistics (AT\&L), and OASD-Networks and
Information Integration (NII), which is now known only as the DoD-Chief
Information Office (CIO).

He currently chairs a Global ICT-SCRM Ad-Hoc WG under American National
Standards Institute / International Committee for Information Technology
Standards (ANSI / INCITS). He co-chairs the US interagency working group
on SCRM LifeCycle Processes & Standards. He serves as the government
Co-Chair for the Acquisition & Outsourcing Working Group with the
Software Assurance Program; SwA Program is a public-private partnership
effort sponsored by DHS, DoD and DoC (NIST). He helped establish the
ongoing DoD Anti-Counterfeits Working Group and a new DoD 'Core'
Software Assurance (SwA) Working Group. He is advising National Defense
Industrial Association (NDIA) on their new Cyber Division. He also
serves on the Executive Board of Directors for SOLE, the International
Society of Logistics, as the VP for Technical & Professional
Development. SOLE is a 501c3 not-for-profit organization.

He is a graduate of Brookings Institute's Executive Leadership 1 & 2
(2005), UNC's LOGTECH at Kenan-Flagler Business School of the University
of North Carolina at Chapel Hill (2007) and the Defense Leadership and
Management Program (DLAMP, 2008).

He has a Bachelor of Science Degree in Engineering from USMA at West
Point NY and a Master of Science Degree in National Security Strategy
with concentration in Information Resources Management from the National
War College (NWC) at National Defense University.

</td>

</tr>

<tr>

<td>

### Michele Moss

![Owasp_logo_normal.jpg](Owasp_logo_normal.jpg
"Owasp_logo_normal.jpg")Bio TBA

</td>

</tr>

</table>

<noinclude></noinclude>