## Topic: DETER Project: Scientific, Safe and Simple CyberSecurity Research

## Speaker: Dr. Jelena Mirkovic

Dr. Jelena Mirkovic is a Computer Scientist at the USC Information
Sciences Institute, which she joined in 2007. Prior to this she was an
Assistant Professor at the Computer and Information Sciences Department,
University of Delaware, 2003-2007.
She received her M.S. and Ph.D. from UCLA, and her B.S. in Computer
Science and Engineering from the School of Electrical Engineering,
University of Belgrade, Serbia.
Her current research is focused on scientific cyber security
experimentation, safe sharing of network data, denial-of-service attacks
and IP spoofing. Her research is funded by the National Science
Foundation, the Department of Homeland Security and the Infosys
Corporation.

## Abstract: DETER Project: Scientific, Safe and Simple CyberSecurity Research

As the Internet has become pervasive and our critical infrastructures
inextricably tied to information systems, the risk for economic, social,
and physical disruption due to the insecurities of information systems
has increased immeasurably.  Over the past 10 years there has been
increased investment in research on cyber security technologies by U.S.
government agencies and industry.  However, a large-scale deployment of
effective security technology is lacking. One important reason for this
deficiency is the lack of an experimental infrastructure and rigorous
scientific methodologies for development and testing next-generation
cyber security technologies.
To address these shortcomings, the DETER project is creating the
necessary infrastructure - testbeds, tools, and supporting processes -
for national-scale experimentation on emerging security research and
advanced development technologies for cyber defense.  The DETER testbed,
funded by the US Department of Homeland Security and the National
Science Foundation has been operational since 2004. Today it hosts 400+
nodes at USC/ISI and UC Berkeley, and serves more than 1,200 users and
150 projects from all over the world. It is used for academic research
and teaching, and for testing commercial products. It is accompanied by
a set of experimentation tools and products that make experiment setup,
monitoring and control easy even at large scales. The DETER project has
further made advances in supporting very large scale experiments via
testbed federations, and in supporting safe experimentation with risky
code.


The next generation of the DETER project plans major improvements in
experimental processes to guarantee experimental validity, repeteabiiity
and portability. It further plans improvements in operations to support
an order of magnitude larger experiments than today. Finally, it plans
to build effective community tools for exchange of code, data and ideas
between its users which fosters closer collaborations. This talk will
describe the current state of the DETER testbed, and our new efforts
aimed at advancing the science of cyber security experimentation..