## Topic: Deep Dive into Web Application Scanning

## Speaker: Brian Robinson

Brian Robison is the Senior Product Manager for McAfee's enterprise
vulnerability management solutions. Driven by a relentless desire for
customer satisfaction and leveraging over a decade of experience in
security and risk management, he is primarily responsible for the
strategy and roadmap of McAfee's enterprise vulnerability management
offerings, including the web application assessment module. Brian joined
McAfee in 2005 as a Technical Marketing Engineer focusing on McAfee's
endpoint security products before serving as the Product Manager for
McAfee ePolicy Orchestrator 4.0.

## Speaker: Sven Schrecker

Sven Schrecker joined McAfee in 2006 as part of the Preventsys
acquisition. He has worked extensively on the integration of Risk &
Compliance products into McAfee's ePolicy Orchestrator product. Most
recently, he directed the efforts on the total revamp of the Web
Assessment Engine for McAfee Vulnerability Manager (formerly known as
Foundstone). He is currently architecting cloud-based security
technologies.

## Abstract: Deep Dive into Web Application Scanning

Web applications have exploded to become the point of entry for hackers
wanting to do harm. Knowing how and where web applications are
vulnerable is key to sustaining goodwill and ensuring a positive
experience for those who rely on those applications. Learn tips and
techniques for effectively scanning web applications to keep them safe
and secure. Hear about best practices from other McAfee customers for
web application scanning.


## Sponsor

[**![Mcafee_logo.jpg](Mcafee_logo.jpg
"Mcafee_logo.jpg")**](http://Www.MykonosSoftware.com)