## Topic: Cloud Computing Security: Raining on the Trendy New Parade


Slides can be found [here on Google
Docs](https://docs.google.com/fileview?id=0By_clZjtpXPwMWM0YWIyZDgtZmRkZC00YTZlLWE1MDEtNmU0N2Y3MzQwMTJh&hl=en).

## Speaker: Alex Stamos

Alex Stamos is a founding partner of iSEC Partners, a strategic digital
security organization. Alex is an experienced security engineer and
consultant specializing in application security and securing large
infrastructures, and has taught multiple classes in network and
application security.

He is a leading researcher in the field of web application and web
services security and has been a featured speaker at top industry
conferences such as Black Hat, CanSecWest, DefCon, SyScan, Microsoft
BlueHat and OWASP App Sec.

He holds a BS in Electrical Engineering and Computer Science from the
University of California, Berkeley.

## Abstract: Cloud Computing Security: Raining on the Trendy New Parade

Cloud computing is an unstoppable meme at the CIO level, and will
dominate corporate IT planning for the next several years. Although they
do offer the promise of cost savings for many organizations, the basic
ideas behind abstracting out the corporate datacenter greatly
complicates the tasks of securing and auditing these systems. While
there has been excellent research into low-level hypervisor and
virtualization bugs, there has been little public discussion of the “big
picture” problems for cloud computing. These include virtualized network
devices, browser same-origin issues, credential management and many
interesting legal challenges.

Our goal with this talk will be to explore the different attack
scenarios that exist in the cloud computing world and to provide a
comparison between the security models of the leading cloud computing
platforms. We will discuss how current attacks against applications and
infrastructure are changed with cloud computing, as well as introduce
the audience to new types of vulnerabilities that are unique to cloud
computing. Attendees will learn how to analyze the threat posed to them
by cloud computing platforms as either providers or consumers of
software built on these new platforms. Our platforms for discussion
include Salesforce.com, Google Apps, Microsoft Office Live, Google
AppEngine, Microsoft Azure, Amazon EC2, and Sun.