## Topic: Do VLANs allow for good application security?

## Speaker: David M. N. Bryan

Senior Security Consultant

David has over 9+ years of computer security experience including,
consulting, engineering and administration. He has performed security
assessment projects for health care, nuclear, manufacturing,
pharmaceutical, banking and educational sectors. As an active
participant in the information security community, he volunteers at
DEFCON where he designs and implements the Firewall and Network for what
is said to be the most hostile network environment in the world.

He is also an active participant in the local Minneapolis security
groups both as a board member of OWASP MSP and DC612. His roots and
experience come from working for a large enterprise banks, designing and
managing enterprise security systems. In the more recent years he has
been working as an Information Security Consultant to review the
security and architecture of information computing environments.

## Abstract: Do VLANs allow for good application security?

Virtual Local Area Networks (VLANs) are not a new concept, and can help
any organization better control network access. I will present some of
the previous issues identified, what was the root cause, and how these
have been fixed in current technology. In addition we will talk about
how this can help to enhance security in your environment, and what
controls must be in place in order to implement such an environment. We
will also touch on how this can complicate your application environment,
but improve overall security.

I will touch on the controls that need to be reviewed and audited when
working with VMware, VLANs, and web applications, to ensure that these
networks are secure, and what to look for to potentially pass audit
criteria. I will also talk about where and how these controls have been
implemented in order to protect thousands of users while accessing one
of the most hostile networks in the world.