## Topic: Identity Management: Federation and Authorization

## Speaker: Todd Calvert

Todd Calvert is currently the Western Region Business Development /
Sales Director for Arcot Systems, based in Sunnyvale, California, where
he has been with the company over two years. Prior to Arcot, he has been
involved with various industries involving enterprise SW for application
management, modeling & statistical analysis, and optimization for
companies such as Compuware, KLA-Tencor, Nikon Inc., and Wind River. He
graduated UC Santa Barbara in 1991 with a B.S. in Mathematical Sciences
degree, and has spent much of his time to delivering educational &
technical seminars and math tutoring on the side.

## Topic: Sharks and Security

## Speaker: Mano Paul

![Mano_Paul.jpg](Mano_Paul.jpg "Mano_Paul.jpg") <b>Shark Researcher
turned Security Guru\!</b>
<b>Manoranjan (Mano) Paul</b> (CSSLP, CISSP, AMBCI, MCSD, MCAD, CompTIA
Network+, ECSA) is the Founder and CEO at [SecuRisk
Solutions](http://www.securisksolutions.com) and [Express
Certifications](http://www.expresscertifications.com). Based out of
Austin, Texas in the USA, SecuRisk Solutions specializes in three areas
of information security solutions - Product Development, Consulting and
Awareness, Training & Education while Express Certifications focuses on
professional certifications like the CISSP, SSCP, CSSLP and the BCI
certificate.

Before SecuRisk Solutions and Express Certifications, Mano played
several roles from software developer, quality assurance tester,
logistics manager, technical architect, IT strategist and Security
Engineer/Program Manager/Strategist at Dell Inc. His information
security experience includes designing and developing software security
programs from Compliance-to-Coding, application security risk
management, security strategy & management, and conducting security
awareness training and education.

Mano started his career as a shark researcher in the Bimini Biological
Field Station, Bahamas. His educational pursuit took him to the
University of Oklahoma where he received his Business Administration
degree in Management Information Systems (MIS) with various accolades
and the coveted 4.0 GPA. He was a member of the OWASP Global Education
Committee and actively participates in OWASP speaking, training and
leadership events. He is also the appointed Software Assurance Advisor
for (ISC)<sup>2</sup>, representing and advising the organization on
software assurance strategy, training, education and certification. He
has also served as an appointed faculty member and industry
representative of the Capitol of Texas Information System Security
Association (ISSA) chapter.

Mano has been featured in various domestic and international security
conferences and is an invited speaker and panelist, delivering talks and
keynotes in conferences such as the OWASP, CSI, Burton Group Catalyst,
TRISC and SC World Congress conferences. He is the author of the
Official (ISC)<sup>2</sup> Guide to the Certified Secure Software
Lifecycle Professional (CSSLP<sup>CM</sup>), contributing author for the
Information Security Management Handbook, writes periodically for the
Certification Magazine and has contributed to several security topics
for the Microsoft Solutions Developer Network (MSDN).

Mano is married to Sangeetha Johnson whom he calls the “most wonderful
and sacrificial person in this world” and their greatest fulfillment
comes from spending time with their son – Reuben A Paul (RAP).

## Abstract: Sharks and Security

Do you know what makes a shark a shark and a hacker a hacker? Which is
the most dangerous shark and how does that fit the profile of a
dangerous hacker? What does the tiger shark have to do with garbage
collection? Is there any connection between the locomotion in sharks and
reverse engineering? and more…

There are sharks at sea and there are sharks on land\! Many are
prevalent in the information security space. In this talk, Mano Paul, a
shark biologist are researcher from the Bahamas turned security
professional takes you through the similarities and differences that
exists between sharks that are after our digital assets and the
relatively less dangerous and beautiful creation that swims the ocean
currents. The talk with the demo of a Trojan called SharkBait has take
aways for the all kinds of audiences, whether they are management,
technical or operational in scope.
Come for a fun-filled, highly interactive, and interesting presentation
and leave with a new sense of appreciation on how to look at sharks and
hackers and what you can do so that you or your organizations don't
become shark bait.

## Sponsors

Arcot Systems Inc is the largest cloud based authentication company in
the world and also a leader in online security products including 3-D
Secure (aka Verified-by-Visa / MasterCard SecureCode), Strong
Authentication, Risk Assessment, Secure Document Delivery, Tokenization
and Secure Digital Signing.Our Strength is in a token-less 2 Factor
Authentication Methodology /Adaptive Authentication/Secure Digital
Signing/3-D Secure/Tokenization to reduce PCI-DSS Audit cost.

ArcotID, 100% software based smart card, is the core constituent of this
solution. ArcotID provides strong protection of digital IDs for
multi-factor authentication, digital signatures and encryption. ArcotID
uses Arcot's patented 'Cryptographic Camouflage' technology.

WebFort is Versatile Authentication Server (VAS) that supports ArcotID
authentication in addition to One-Time-Password (OTP),
Question-and-Answer and Password authentications