## Topic: Secure Coding Practices and Procedures

## Speaker: Mike O. Villegas, CISA, CISSP, GSEC

Miguel (Mike) O. Villegas is the Director of Information Security at
Newegg, Inc. and is responsible for Information Security, Business
Continuity Management, and PCI DSS (Payment Card Industry Data Security
Standard) compliance. Newegg, Inc. is a PCI Level 1 Merchant and Service
Provider. It is one of the fastest growing E-Commerce companies
established in 2001 and exceeded revenues of over $2.6 Billion in 2009.

Mike has over 30 years of Information Systems security and IT audit
experience. Mike was previously Vice President & Technology Risk Manager
for Wells Fargo Services responsible for IT Regulatory Compliance and
was previously a partner at Arthur Andersen and Ernst & Young for their
information systems security and IS audit groups over a span of nine
years. Mike is a CISA, CISSP, and GSEC.

Mike is the current LA ISACA Chapter President and was the SF ISACA
Chapter President during 2005-2006. He was the SF Fall Conference
Co-Chair from 2002–2007 and also served for two years as Vice President
on the Board of Directors for ISACA International.

## Abstract: Secure Coding Practices and Procedures

Secure Coding Practices and Procedures: Organizations process
information over web applications that can be often classified as
sensitive, confidential, or considered intellectual property. Web
Application Firewalls (WAF) provide protection for business critical
data and web applications with an automated and transparent approach to
monitor and protect enterprise data as it is accessed and transacted
through applications.

To augment WAF filtering and vulnerability monitoring, many
organizations have developed or outsource secure code reviews and
development. Information Security at Newegg established their own .NET
C\# secure coding standard, train and test our developers on secure
coding, and do their own secure code reviews with WebInspect and manual
code reviews. They started to develop a web application threat modeling
approach but it is still in its infancy. This presentation focuses on
the secure coding standard, satisfying PCI requirements for such, and
training / testing of developers in secure coding practices using OWASP
Top 10 Vulnerabilities as its foundation.

## Topic: Threat Modeling at Symantec

## Speaker: Edward Bonver, CISSP, CSSLP

Edward Bonver is a principal software engineer on the product security
team, which is part of Symantec Research Labs under the Office of the
CTO at Symantec Corporation. In this capacity, Edward is responsible for
working with software developers and quality assurance (QA)
professionals across Symantec to continuously enhance the company’s
software security practices through the adoption of methodologies,
procedures and tools for secure coding and security testing. Within
Symantec, Edward teaches secure coding and security testing classes for
Symantec engineers, and also leads the company’s QA Security Task Force,
which he founded. Prior to joining Symantec, Edward held software
engineering and QA roles at Digital Equipment Corporation, and small
networking companies.

Edward is a Certified Information Systems Security Professional (CISSP),
a Certified Secure Software Lifecycle Professional (CSSLP), and is a
professional member of the Institute of Electrical and Electronics
Engineers (IEEE) and the Association of Computing Machinery (ACM). He
holds a masters degree in computer science from California State
University, Northridge, and a bachelors degree in computer science from
Rochester Institute of Technology. Edward is a Ph.D. student at NOVA
Southeastern University.

## Abstract:Threat Modeling at Symantec

Threat Modeling at Symantec: Threat Modeling is one of the most
important security activities that a development/QA team needs to
perform as part of a Security Development Lifecycle. This activity
allows the team to build a complete security profile of the system being
built. Threat Modeling is not always easy to get going for a team that
has little or no security experience. In this presentation we’ll take a
look at why Threat Modeling is so important; we’ll explore the process
behind it, and how the process is being implemented and followed across
Symantec.

## Sponsor

![Whitehat.jpg](Whitehat.jpg "Whitehat.jpg")