## The presentation

![Owasp_logo_normal.jpg](Owasp_logo_normal.jpg
"Owasp_logo_normal.jpg")Web Services-based application integration pulls
corporations towards "opening up" internal systems for other systems to
call into whereas security pulls a company towards "locking down"
business information. For successful integration projects,
ease-of-system integration without compromising security is paramount.
In this session, attendees will learn techniques for identifying web
services security threats such as SQL Injection, DoS and XSD Mutation.
Countermeasure techniques will be highlighted to mitigate exposure to
identified security threats.

## The speakers

Jason Macy is the CTO at Crosscheck Networks responsible for
implementation and product strategy of the SOA Web Services based
technologies. As co-founder of Crosscheck Networks, Jason has pioneered
the field of web service testing and simulation with over 40,000 product
installation worldwide. Jason also serves as VP Engineering for the
wholly-owned subsidiary Forum Systems where he continues to be
responsible for the software development lifecycle of the industry's
only patented FIPS certified hardware security gateway for SOA web
services. Before moving into the XML web services realm, Jason worked as
the lead architect for Raytheon responsible for testing and successful
commissioning of the Air Traffic Control system at Schipol Airport in
Amsterdam, Holland. Jason holds dual-degrees in both Computer Science
and Computer Engineering.

Mamoon Yunus is an industry-honored CEO and visionary in Web
Services-based technologies. As the founder of Forum Systems, Mr. Yunus
pioneered Web Services Security Gateways & Firewalls. He has spearheaded
Forum's direction and strategy for six generations of award-winning Web
Services Security products. Prior to Forum Systems, Mr. Yunus was a
Global Systems Engineer for webMethods (acquired by Software AG) where
he developed XML-based business integration and architecture plans for
Global 2000 companies. He has held various high-level executive
positions at Informix (acquired by IBM) and Cambridge Technology Group.
Mr. Yunus holds two Graduate Degrees in Engineering from MIT and a BSME
from Georgia Institute of Technology.

[Category:OWASP_AppSec_DC_09](Category:OWASP_AppSec_DC_09 "wikilink")
[Category:OWASP_Conference_Presentations](Category:OWASP_Conference_Presentations "wikilink")