# Overview

Each project will have a 2-3 paragraph overview narrative. Keep to the
key top points about the project. Visitors should be able to read this
short narrative and have a good understanding of the project without
having to scroll the entire document.

# Project Links

# Goals

# Milestones

  - 2019-02-28, Deadline for signed contract and deposit of AUD$1,686
    \[DONE\]
  - 2019-05-03, 20% payment of Space hire charges of AUD$3,372, \[Mike\]
  - 2019-09-01, Get COI in place for event. \[Mike\]
  - 2019-10-28, 90% payment of estimated event charges due of
    AUD$107,356.95, (90% of Total Est $124905.50 calculates to
    $112,414.95. Subtract preview deposits of $1,686 and $3,372 which
    results in $107,356.95), \[Mike\]
  - 2019-11-01, Event Date

# Leadership

# Logistics

## Name & URLs

  - Name: AppSec Day Melbourne
  - URL: <https://melbourne.appsecdays.org>

## Venue

`Melbourne Convention Exhibition Center`
`T +61 3 9235 800`

# Lodging

Hyperlink, address and phone number of lodging options. If a negotiated
rate has been secured it should be noted. If possible please include 3-4
lodging options and list distance of each location from venue and the
nearest likely airport for travelers.

# Registration

List all registration options and their prices and what conditions are
required for certain discounts (if any). Include a link to the
registration page. Note the registration link should ALSO be available
in the Key Resources sections above.

# Budget

The high level budget should be listed below as a table. The full budget
should be linked here and in a Google Sheet in the OWASP instance set to
public (read only).

Provide link to full budget

# Sponsorships

This event offers several parter sponsorships opportunities. If you are
interested in supporting the event please contact
\[kelly@owasp.org\](mailto:kelly@owasp.org\&subject:Eventname). Below is
a list of existing and available sponsorships. Please note all
sponsorship levels include a table in the exhibition area and logos on
conference materials and signage. All sponsor assets will go in a folder
named sponsors in this repo.

# Legal

This section will include a checklist of the key contracts and legal
documents needed to execute an event. Please link here all fully
executed agreements. IF any agreement isn’t completed the status should
be provided here.

  - Venue \[
    [Signed 20-Feb-19](https://www.owasp.org/images/9/95/2019-OWASP-AU-Contract.pdf)
    \]
  - Venue A/V (if different vendor) \[Included in Venue agreement\]
  - Catering \[Included in Venue agreement \]
  - Session Recordings \[ \]
  - Lead Collection \[ \]
  - Event Insurance \[ \]

`Venue Bank: National Australia Bank Limited`
`Account Name: Melbourne Convention and Exhibition Trust`
`BSB: 083 004 Account: 679903600`
`SWIFT Code: NATAAU3303M`

# Creative

[Category:Staff Projects](Category:Staff_Projects "wikilink")