## Update (13.09.2017):

The workshop finally took place on 11th/12th of September with people
arriving a day before. We had five participants working on the REST Web
Services and Denial of Service cheat sheets.

We kicked off the workshop with a remote call with Jim Manico who stayed
up late for us in California (thx Jim\!). The following two days were
filled with brainstorming, discussions and editing... and good food and
coffee as well.

[REST Security Cheat Sheet](REST_Security_Cheat_Sheet "wikilink")

[DRAFT Denial of Service Cheat
Sheet](DRAFT_Denial_of_Service_Cheat_Sheet "wikilink")
![OWASP_Cheat_Sheet_Workshop_Germany_2017.png](OWASP_Cheat_Sheet_Workshop_Germany_2017.png
"OWASP_Cheat_Sheet_Workshop_Germany_2017.png")

__NOTOC__

## UPDATE (28.08.2017):

We are still looking for two substiute substiutes due to two
cancelations. If you want to contribute to cheat sheats about DDOS or
REST, JWT, then please **apply now** using the easychair link below.

## Join the 1st OWASP Cheat Sheet Workshop with Jim Manico hosted by the German Chapter

The German OWASP Chapter will fund a CS workshop to improve existing CS
or to develop new ones. Two days of talks, discussions and CS writing
are waiting for you. We are looking for a sound mix of experts and
volunteers, which want to maintain a CS for a longer time.

**The format:** two days, maximal 20 people, we envisioned half of them
to be experts (research or practitioners) and the other half to be
enthusiatic helpers (preferably from the user group of the cheat
sheets). The experts can give talks or moderate discussions and
brainstormings for the CS at the first day. The second day is dedicated
to writing and peer-reviewing of the results.

**The topics:** two topics selected (one for each group of 10 people)
from: CSP, Password Handling, TLS Configuration, JSON Web Token, DoS
Protection, Privacy

**The venue:** we will meet at the conference hotel Collegium Glashütten
near Frankfurt, <http://www.collegium-glashuetten.de/en/>. There will be
shuttle transfers from and to Frankfurt main station and Frankfurt
Airport to the venue.

**The schedule:** the workshop runs at 11./12.09.2017 (Monday and
Tuesday). The attendees should arrive at Sunday afternoon. The workshop
closes at Tuesday 16:00.

**The funding:** the German Chapter will fund the venue (Sunday evening
until Tuesday afternoon), including rooms and full board. Attendees can
apply for a travel allowances up to 400 EUR.

**How to apply?** Apply here to participate:
<https://easychair.org/conferences/?conf=gocheats17>. Please tell us
your topic of interest and (optional) your background in this area. The
Call for Participation is expected to close at 16.07.2017. The Program
Committee (Jim Manico, Martin Knobloch, Martin Johns) will draw the
attendees, if there should be more applications than seats.

-----

<small>(Kleines [HowTo](Germany/Website_HowTo "wikilink") für die
deutschen wiki-Seiten)</small>

[Category:Germany](Category:Germany "wikilink")
[Category:Europe](Category:Europe "wikilink")