The Boston Application Security Conference (BASC) provides a forum for
open discussion between participants, where radical viewpoints are
welcome and a high degree of skepticism is expected. However, insulting
or harassing other participants is unacceptable. We want BASC to be a
safe and productive environment for everyone. It’s not about what you
look like but what’s in your mind and how you present yourself that
counts at BASC.

We do not condone any form of harassment against any participant, for
any reason. Harassment includes, but is not limited to, deliberate
intimidation and targeting individuals in a manner that makes them feel
uncomfortable, unwelcome, or afraid.

Participants asked to stop any harassing behavior are expected to comply
immediately. We reserve the right to respond to harassment in the manner
we deem appropriate, including but not limited to expulsion without
refund and referral to the relevant authorities.

This Code of Conduct applies to everyone participating at BASC – from
attendees and exhibitors to speakers, press, volunteers, and staff.

Anyone can report harassment. If you are being harassed, notice that
someone else is being harassed, or have any other concerns, you can
contact a staff member, go to the registration desk, or information
booth.

You can email an actively monitored mailbox (during the conference
timeframes) at the email address:

boston \[at\] owasp.org

This is if you do not feel comfortable speaking to someone in person.
For immediate response, we recommend notifying a staff member in-person.
Note that if this is an emergency, please dial 911 and contact law
enforcement immediately.

Conference staff will be happy to help participants contact hotel
security, local law enforcement, or otherwise assist those experiencing
harassment to feel safe for the duration of BASC.

Remember: The conference is what you make of it, and as a community we
can create a great experience for everyone. Our goal at BASC is to have
a resonating impact on the information security industry and as a
conference. Thank you to all who make BAC a success and for the
continued awesomeness of the community.

\-Boston Application Security Conference Team

`(Thank you DEFCON for letting us use your opensource COC!)`