__TOC__

## Call for Papers -- Refereed Papers Track

The OWASP AppSec conferences bring together application security experts
and software engineers from all over the world. Industry and academia
meet to discuss open problems and new solutions in application security.
The conferences offer researchers and practitioners a set of tutorials,
keynotes, and invited presentations.

As in the previous editions, the OWASP AppSec Europe 2013 conference
will feature a refereed papers track. The goal of the refereed papers
track is twofold:

  - to give academic researchers in Web application security the
    opportunity to share their research results with practitioners, and
  - to give industry people the possibility to share experiences with
    academia and the OWASP community.

Hence both research papers as well as experience papers pertaining to
all aspects of web application security are solicited. Papers should
describe new ideas, new implementations, or experiences related to web
application security. We explicitly encourage members of the Web
security community to explore leading-edge topics and ideas before they
are presented at a major conference.

### Topics of interest

We are interested in all topics related to Web Application Security, in
particular:

  - Web application security
  - Security aspects of new/emerging web
    technologies/paradigms/languages/frameworks
  - Secure development: frameworks, best practices, secure coding,
    methods, processes, SDLC, etc.
  - Security of frameworks (Struts, Spring, ASP.Net MVC, RoR, etc)
  - Vulnerability analysis (code review, pentest, static analysis etc)
  - Threat modeling of applications
  - Mobile security and security for the mobile web
  - Cloud security
  - Browser security and HTML5 security
  - Countermeasures for application vulnerabilities
  - New technologies, paradigms, tools
  - Application security awareness and education
  - Security in web services, REST, and service oriented architectures
  - Privacy in web apps, Web services and data storage

### Important Dates

  - Submission deadline: May 22, 2013 (extended from 15.05.)
  - Notification of acceptance: June 22, 2013
  - Final version due: July 15, 2013 (tbc)
  - AppSec Conference: August 22-23 2013

### Instructions for Authors

Submissions should be at most 12 pages long in the Springer LNCS Style
for Proceedings and Other Multiauthor Volumes. Submissions deviating
from these requirements may be rejected without review. Templates for
preparing papers in this style for LaTeX, Word, and other word
processors can be downloaded from
[here](http://www.springer.com/computer/lncs?SGWID=0-164-6-793341-0)
(Please use instructions for **Proceedings and Other Multiauthor
Volumes** for different text processing platforms). Submissions are due
by May 22nd, 23:59 GMT. All submissions should be sent in Adobe Portable
Document Format (pdf) via
[EasyChair](https://www.easychair.org/conferences/?conf=owaspresearchacademi).

The workshop has no published proceedings. Presenting a paper at the
workshop should not preclude submission to or publication in other
venues. Copies of papers presented at the workshop will be made
available in electronic format, but this will not constitute an official
proceedings.

### Terms

Please read that the terms of the [Industry
tracks](AppSecEU2013/CfPresos#Terms "wikilink"). They also apply for the
Research track.

### Program Committee Research

  -
    Bastian Braun, University of Passau, Germany
    Elie Bursztein, Google, USA
    Lieven Desmet, KU Leuven, Belgium
    Hannes Federrath, University of Hamburg, Germany
    Dieter Gollmann, Technische Universität Hamburg-Harburg
    Thorsten Holz, Ruhr-Universitaet Bochum, Germany
    Martin Johns, SAP Research, Germany (chair)
    Engin Kirda, Northeastern University, USA
    Nick Nikiforakis, KU Leuven, Belgium
    Andrei Sabelfeld, Chalmers, Sweden
    Sebastian Schinzel, University Erlangen-Nürnberg, Germany
    John Wilander, OWASP and Linköping University, Sweden

-----

[<top>](AppSecEU2013 "wikilink") [<Germany>](Germany "wikilink")

[Category:OWASP_AppSec_Conference](Category:OWASP_AppSec_Conference "wikilink")
[Category:Germany](Category:Germany "wikilink")
[Category:Europe](Category:Europe "wikilink")