__TOC__

## Call for Presentations (Industry)

The German Chapter of the Open Web Application Security Project (OWASP)
is proud to organize this years' OWASP AppSec Research EU conference.

OWASP AppSec conferences are the premier gathering for Software Security
leaders and researchers. It brings together the application security
community to share cutting-edge ideas, initiatives and technological
advancements.

### Topics

OWASP AppSec conferences are true security conferences, with expected
talks and presentations all around (web) application security.
Non-technical talks (see below) are welcome too. Please refrain from
submitting marketing talks or having sales pitches in your talk.

We are interested in all topics related to Web Application Security and
OWASP, in particular:

  - Secure development: frameworks, best practices, secure coding,
    methods, processes, SDLC
  - Vulnerability analysis: code review, pentest, static analysis
  - Threat modelling
  - Mobile security
  - Cloud security
  - Browser security
  - HTML5 security
  - OWASP tools or projects in practice
  - New technologies, paradigms, tools
  - Privacy in web apps, Web services (REST, XML) and data storage
  - Operations and software security
  - Management topics in Application Security: Business Risks,
    Outsourcing/Offshoring, Awareness Programs, Project Management,
    Managing SDLC

### Terms

By your submission you agree to the OWASP [Speaker
Agreement](Speaker_Agreement "wikilink"). It requires that you use an
[OWASP presentation
template](https://www.owasp.org/images/7/76/OWASP_Presentation_Template.zip).
You are welcome to include your company logo to the first and last
slide. All presentation slides will be published on the conference
website. Please make sure that any pictures and other materials in your
slides doesn't violate any copyrights. You are solely liable for
copyright violations. You may choose any [CC
licence](http://creativecommons.org/licenses) for your slides, including
CC0. OWASP does [suggest open licenses](OWASP_Licenses "wikilink").

Participants and speakers are all warmly invited to attend the
conference dinner on Thursday. Subject to the budget situation there's
an extra evening program for all accepted speakers.

Unfortunately we can't cover travel expenses or costs for accomodations.

### Program Committee (Industry)

  -
    [Dinis Cruz](User:Dinis.cruz "wikilink"), OWASP O2 Platform
    [Sebastien Deleersnyder](User:Sdeleersnyder "wikilink"), OWASP
    BeNeLux
    Jeremiah Grossman, WhiteHat Security
    Dr. Boris Hemkemeier, OWASP Germany
    [Achim Hoffmann](User:Achim "wikilink"), OWASP Germany
    Dr. Giles Hogben, [Cloud Security
    Alliance](https://cloudsecurityalliance.org/)
    Dr. Martin Johns, SAP Research (head research PC)
    Holger Junker, [Federal Office for Information Security
    (BSI)](https://www.bsi.bund.de/EN/Home/home_node.html)
    Alex "kuza55" Kouzemtchenko, Coverity
    [Jim Manico](User:jmanico "wikilink"), OWASP USA
    [Dr. Konstantinos Papapanagiotou](User:Conpap "wikilink"), OWASP
    Greece
    Prof. Dr. Sachar Paulus, [University of Applied Science in
    Brandenburg](http://www.fh-brandenburg.de/index.php?id=2&type=1)
    Thomas Roessler, [World Wide Web Consortium
    (W3C)](http://www.w3.org/)
    David Ross, Microsoft
    [Dr. Sebastian Schinzel](User:Sebastian_Schinzel "wikilink"),
    University Erlangen-Nuremberg
    [Dr. Dirk Wetter](User:Dirk_Wetter "wikilink"), OWASP Germany (head
    industry PC)
    [John Wilander](user:John.wilander "wikilink"), OWASP Sweden +
    Link√∂ping University
    Michal Zalewski, Google Inc

Contact: pc2013//lists/appsec/eu

### Deadlines

  - Submission of proposals by: April 14, 2013 (11:59pm GMT)
  - Notification of acceptance: April 30, 2013, *+1 week*
  - Publication of program: May 10, 2013, *+1 week*
  - Conference Date: August 22-23, 2013

### Submission

To submit a proposal, please submit online (see link below) an abstract
of your intended presentation (500 to 4000 chararters) and a brief
biography (150 to 800 characters). Your planned presentation time is 40
minutes (excl. \~5 minutes for discussion and change of speaker). Feel
free to attach a preliminary version of your presentation if available.
Any proposal submitted is subject to a democratic vote by the program
committee (pc). Keep in mind: The better your description the better our
picture (do not count on "fail open"). Please watch out for any mistakes
as after approval by the pc we take your abstract and publish it 1:1 in
our program.

All proposals for this industry part have to be submitted through
[EasyChair](https://www.easychair.org/conferences/?conf=appseceu2013).

### Related Cf{P^2,T}

Please note that there are two related invitations to submit a proposal
for this conference:

  - [Call for Papers](AppSecEU2013/CfPapers "wikilink") (Research track)
  - [Call for Trainings](AppSecEU2013/CfTrainings "wikilink")

-----

[<top>](AppSecEU2013 "wikilink") [<Germany>](Germany "wikilink")

[Category:OWASP_AppSec_Conference](Category:OWASP_AppSec_Conference "wikilink")
[Category:Germany](Category:Germany "wikilink")
[Category:Europe](Category:Europe "wikilink")