__TOC__

## Call for Trainings

OWASP is soliciting training providers for the AppSec EU 2013
conference.

## Terms

The following conditions apply for those that want to provide training
at the OWASP AppSec this year:

The training provider

  - should provide class syllabus / training materials.
  - provider will cover travel and accommodations for the instructor(s)
    and all course materials for students.
  - can brand training materials to increase their exposure

All trainers will be required to submit a [Training Instructor
Agreement](https://www.owasp.org/images/f/fb/Training_Instructor_Agreement.AppSecEU2013.pdf).

OWASP will provide the venue, marketing, registration logistics, basic
wireless internet access. If you need additional technical arrangements,
it is important to let us know. Also we like to get your idea about the
maximal numbers of participants which you like in your training. OWASP
can apply cut offs too.

OWASP will reserve up to two training slots at no cost and the trainer
may reserve up to one slot at no cost.

Please note that for data privacy reasons OWASP can't provide trainers
with contact information of the attendees.

Spoken and written language is English.

### Split of Revenue

Price per attendee: 2-Day Class €1400 / 1-Day Class €750 . Earnings will
be split 60/40 (OWASP/Trainer) for the training class.

### Deadlines

  - Deadline for proposals: March 29, 2013
  - Notification to training providers: by April 5, 2013, late: \~ +1
    week
  - Posted on web site: by April 12, 2013, late: \~ +1 week
  - Training: August 20-21, 2013

Contact: trainings2013//lists//appsec//eu

### Submission

To submit a proposal, please submit online (see below) an abstract of
your intended training (500 to 1000 chararters) and a brief biography
(400 to 1000 characters) which also should outline your instructor
experience.

Every proposal submitted is subject to a democratic vote by the program
committee (pc) above. Keep in mind: The better your description the
better our picture (do not count on "fail open"). Please watch out for
any mistakes as after approval by the pc we take your abstract and
publish it 1:1 in our program.

Visit <u>[this
URL](https://www.easychair.org/conferences/?conf=appseceu2013training)</u>
to submit your training proposal for the August 20-21, 2013 training
days in Hamburg, Germany.

Don't forget

  - To enclose a signed copy of the [Training Instructor
    Agreement](https://www.owasp.org/images/f/fb/Training_Instructor_Agreement.AppSecEU2013.pdf)
  - to list any additional technical requirements if needed
  - to propose your max number of participants.

## Topics

The topics are the same as those mentioned in the regular Call for
Presentations see
<https://www.owasp.org/index.php/AppSecEU2013/CfPresos#Topics>. The
trainings however should be more of a practical nature, i.e. we will
look favorably on a hands-on training.

### Program Committee

Your submission is subject to approval by a small core team of the
program committee:

  - Sebastien Deleersnyder, OWASP Belgium
  - Boris Hemkemeier, OWASP Germany
  - Achim Hoffmann, OWASP Germany
  - Martin Johns, SAP Research
  - Jim Manico, OWASP USA (not voting)
  - Sebastian Schinzel, University Erlangen-Nuremberg
  - Dirk Wetter, OWASP Germany

### Related Cf.s

Please note that there are two related invitations to submit a proposal
for this conference:

  - [Call for Presentations](AppSecEU2013/CfPresos "wikilink"): Regular
    Tracks
  - [Call for Papers](AppSecEU2013/CfPapers "wikilink"): Research Track

-----

[<top>](AppSecEU2013 "wikilink") [<Germany>](Germany "wikilink")

[Category:OWASP_AppSec_Conference](Category:OWASP_AppSec_Conference "wikilink")
[Category:Germany](Category:Germany "wikilink")
[Category:Europe](Category:Europe "wikilink")