__NOTOC__

## Description

**Course Length: 1 Day**

Enterprise application source code, independent of languages and
platforms, is a major source of vulnerabilities. The class is designed
and developed to focus on enterprise architecture and application
analytics to discover vulnerabilities across Web 2.0, RIA and HTML5. We
will be covering analysis techniques, with tools, for assessment and
review of enterprise application source code. It is imperative to know
source code review methodologies and strategies for analysis. The
emphasis of the class would be to develop a complete understanding of
source code analysis, techniques and tools to address top set of
vulnerabilities. Knowledge gained would help in analyzing and securing
next generation enterprise applications at all different stages -
architecture, design and/or development. The course is designed and
delivered by the author of "Web Hacking: Attacks and Defenses", "Hacking
Web Services" and "Web 2.0 Security - Defending Ajax, RIA and SOA",
bringing his experience in application security and research to the
curriculum.

## Student Requirements

Class will be demo driven.
Laptop Required: No

## Objectives

Audience: Technical Skill Level: Basic

Objectives are as under,


  - Application Source Code Assessment and Methodologies for next
    generation applications running on Web 2.0 libraries, HTML 5 stack
    and Adobe platforms.
  - Detecting OWASP Top 10 and CWE Top 25 Errors and vulnerabilities -
    mapped to newer stack.
  - Enhancing your ability to understand Enterprise Application
    Framework and Structures with newer context.
  - Dealing with different protocols and structures in enterprise
    environment for vulnerability assessment.
  - Detecting the state of source code for attack vectors like DOM based
    XSS, Flash/Flex based XSS, SQL injection, Cross Site Scripting
    (XSS), Cross Site Request Forgery (CSRF), Path traversal, Session
    hijacking, LDAP/XPATH/Command injection, Buffer overflow, Input
    validation bypassing, Database hacks, Ajax exploits, Web Services
    attack vectors etc.
  - Using tools and writing scripts for source code analysis and
    vulnerability mapping
  - Code review methodologies by Spidering the code, enumerating blocks
    and identifying modules.
  - Scanning for vulnerabilities and analysis by Function and Method
    signature mapping, entry point identification, data access layer
    calls, tracing variables and functions.
  - Decomposing assemblies to discover other security vulnerabilities
    and structured analysis.
  - Key security aspects and Domains for enterprise security like
    Authentication, Authorization, Session management, Crypto usage and
    Error handling.
  - Defense plans and strategies, Secure objects, functions and
    wrappers
  - Detecting vulnerabilities in advanced technologies like Ajax, Rich
    Internet Applications (RIA) and SOA
  - XML and Web Services security for SOAP, XML-RPC and REST base
    attacks and secure coding.
  - Client side coding and security for Ajax, HTML5 and JavaScript
    analysis, Flash based application reviews and Browser security.

## Instructor

**Shreeraj Shah**,B.E., MSCS, MBA, is the founder of Blueinfy, a company
that provides application security services. Prior to founding Blueinfy,
he was founder and board member at Net Square. He also worked with
Foundstone (McAfee), Chase Manhattan Bank and IBM in security space.

He is also the author of popular books like Web 2.0 Security, Hacking
Web Services and Web Hacking: Attacks and Defense. In addition, he has
published several advisories, tools, and whitepapers, and has presented
at numerous conferences including RSA, AusCERT, InfosecWorld (Misti),
HackInTheBox, Blackhat, OSCON, Bellua, Syscan, ISACA etc. His articles
are regularly published on Securityfocus, InformIT, DevX, Oâ€™reilly, HNS.
His work has been quoted on BBC, Dark Reading, Bank Technology as an
expert.

Shreeraj was instrumental in product development, researching new
methodologies and training designs. He has performed several security
consulting assignments in the area of penetration testing, code reviews,
web application assessments, security architecture reviews and managing
projects
Blog: <http://shreeraj.blogspot.com>
Twitter: @shreeraj

[Category:OWASP
Training/AppSec_DC_2012](Category:OWASP_Training/AppSec_DC_2012 "wikilink")