__NOTOC__

## Description

**Course Length: 2 Day**

Come take the official Samurai-WTF training course given by the two
founders and lead developers of the project\! You will learn the latest
Samurai-WTF open source tools and as well as the latest techniques to
perform web application penetration tests. After a quick overview of pen
testing methodology, the instructors will lead you through the
penetration and exploitation of various web applications, including
client side attacks using flaws within the application. Different sets
of open source tools will be used on each web application, allowing you
to learn first hand the pros and cons of each tool. After you have
gained experience with the Samurai-WTF tools, you will be challenged
with a capture the flag event. This final challenge will give you time
to practice your new skills at your own pace and experiment with your
favorite new tools. This experience will help you gain the confidence
and knowledge necessary to perform web application assessments and
expose you to the wealth of freely available, open source tools.

## Student Requirements

1.  Laptop with a functional DVD drive
2.  Latest VMware Player, VMware Workstation, or VMware Fusion installed
3.  Ability to disable all security software on their laptop such as
    Antivirus and/or firewalls
4.  Four (4) GB of hard drive space
5.  At least two (2) GB of RAM

## Objectives

Audience: Management, Technical, Operations
Skill Level: Basic to Intermediate

1.  Attendees will be able to explain the steps and methodology used in
    performing web application assessments and penetration tests.
2.  Attendees will be able to use the open source tools on the
    Samurai-WTF CD to discover and identify vulnerabilities in web
    applications.
3.  Attendees will be able to exploit several client-side and
    server-side vulnerabilities.

## Instructor

Justin Searle & Kevin Johnson

Justin is a Managing Partner of UtiliSec, specializing in Smart Grid
security architecture design and penetration testing. Justin led the
Smart Grid Security Architecture group in the creation of NIST
Interagency Report 7628 and currently plays key roles in the Advanced
Security Acceleration Project for the Smart Grid (ASAP-SG), National
Electric Sector Cybersecurity Organization Resources (NESCOR), and Smart
Grid Interoperability Panel (SGIP). Justin has taught courses in hacking
techniques, forensics, networking, and intrusion detection for multiple
universities, corporations, and security conferences, and is currently
an instructor for the SANS Institute. In addition to electric power
industry conferences, Justin frequently presents at top security
conferences such as Black Hat, DEFCON, OWASP, and AusCERT. Justin
co-leads prominent open source projects including the Samurai Web
Testing Framework, Middler, Yokoso\!, and Laudanum. Justin has an MBA in
International Technology and is a CISSP and SANS GIAC certified Incident
Handler (GCIH), Intrusion Analyst (GCIA), and Web Application
Penetration Tester (GWAPT).

Kevin Johnson is a security consultant with Secure Ideas. Kevin came to
security from a development and system administration background. He has
many years of experience performing security services for fortune 100
companies, and in his spare time he contributes to a large number of
open source security projects. Kevin's involvement in open-source
projects is spread across a number of projects and efforts. He is the
founder of many different projects and has worked on others. He founded
BASE, which is a Web front-end for Snort analysis. He also founded and
continues to lead the SamuraiWTF live DVD. This is a live environment
focused on Web penetration testing. He also founded Yokoso and Laudanum,
which are focused on exploit delivery. Kevin is a senior instructor for
SANS and the author of Security 542: Web Application Penetration Testing
and Ethical Hacking. He also presents at industry events, including
DEFCON and ShmooCon, and for various organizations, like Infragard,
ISACA, ISSA, and the University of Florida.

[Category:OWASP
Training/AppSec_DC_2012](Category:OWASP_Training/AppSec_DC_2012 "wikilink")