__NOTOC__

## Description

**Course Length: 2 Day**

The course focuses on building secure mobile applications for the
Android platform. Students will learn about the Android security model
and platform security features. They will be introduced to mobile
application threat modeling, and learn how to apply the outcomes of
threat modeling directly into their design and development processes.
The OWASP Mobile Top 10 Risks and Controls will be covered at great
length.

After students are taught foundational information, they will learn how
to properly use the various Android components and APIs to reduce the
amount of vulnerabilities within production code. Hands-on labs will use
the vulnerable mobile Android applications provided by the OWASP
GoatDroid project. Students will learn many techniques for performing
source code reviews, penetration testing, and forensic analysis of
Android applications. Hands-on exercises represent a large portion of
the course. Each concept presented will include examples of insecure and
secure code, along with strategies for remediation. By teaching students
how to identify and exploit various security flaws, they will gain a
greater understanding of how the security controls actually protect
their applications.

At the end of this two-day course, attendees should understand how to
build secure applications, perform source code reviews, and perform
penetration testing for Android applications. They will also understand
and be able to demonstrate expertise at applying security controls to
applications for addressing many security defects. Each student will
ultimately take back with them to their workplace a repeatable and
reliable methodology for building and maintaining secure Android
applications.
\==Student Requirements== Laptop Required: Students Need to Bring: None

## Objectives

Audience: Technical Skill Level: Intermediate

Gain greater insight into the security model and features of the Android
platform

Learn how to directly apply concepts to real-world applications and
scenarios

Understand the resources made available through the OWASP Mobile
Security Project and better understand how to incorporate them into
their professional environments.
\==Instructor== Jack Mannino

[Category:OWASP
Training/AppSec_DC_2012](Category:OWASP_Training/AppSec_DC_2012 "wikilink")