__NOTOC__

## Description

**Date: April 3rd 2012**

*'Course Length: 4 Hour*

Educate yourself in Secure Software Design and Development which are two
of the seven domains from the Certified Secure Software Lifecycle
Professional (CSSLP) certification. This session will provide an
in-depth education of these two tough domains of the CSSLP. We will
cover the skills and knowledge needed to design and develop secure code.
In the Secure Software Design domain, you will learn the fundamentals of
design principles when applied will save costly rework. In the Secure
Software Development domain, we will discuss the OWASP Top 10 threats
and how to mitigate them effectively.

The Certified Secure Software Lifecycle Professional (CSSLP) is an
(ISC)2 certification with 7 domains focusing on the topics needed to
develop hacker resilient software. CSSLPs are professionals who have
validated their competency in incorporating security into each phase of
the software lifecycle.

## Instructor

E.J. Jones; Boeing

EJ Jones is a Technical Fellow in Information Security. He is recognized
industry wide as an expert in software engineering and has over 20 years
of experience in the software development and has developed large scale
systems on many diverse platforms and languages. He has created
Application Security teams and has hands on experience in every phase of
the software security lifecycle and has created comprehensive security
programs for software development.

EJ has also been leading technical teams in evaluating cloud hosting
security controls for applications. He teaches all aspects of software
development and a certified CSSLP instructor. He was one of the first
developers in the nation to receive the GIAC Secure Software Programming
certification in Java. EJ is a leading security architect for mobile
devices. He has spoken at the RSA Security, IBM/Rational Developers, and
Cloud Security Alliance conferences. In his spare time EJ develops
iPhone applications.





[Category:OWASP
Training/AppSec_DC_2012](Category:OWASP_Training/AppSec_DC_2012 "wikilink")