__NOTOC__

## Description

**Course Length: 1 Day**

Students will discover mobile hacking techniques for Android and iPhone.
They will understand the platform security models, device security
models, app analysis, file system analysis and runtime analysis for
these popular mobile operating systems.

This course will provide students with the knowledge necessary to assess
mobile app security including what hackers look for in mobile apps.
Hacking apps themselves will equip them with the skills required to
protect their own apps from attacks.

Students will come out with an understanding of the pitfalls to mobile
device security and the importance of developing mobile apps securely.
They will learn the concepts necessary to securely develop mobile in
your organization.
\==Student Requirements==

1.  Laptop w/ minimum 2GB RAM
2.  Latest version of VMWare Player, Fusion, or Workstation

## Objectives

Audience: Technical Skill Level: Intermediate

Perform attacks against sample mobile apps to understand the weaknesses
that exist in the current device security models

Implement secure coding techniques into your mobile development
lifecycle to protect your mobile apps from high risk attacks

Communicate mobile device security threats and the risks associated with
mobile devices from an enterprise perspective
\==Instructors== **Max Veytsman**

Max Veytsman is a Security Consultant with Security Compass, where he
specializes in web and mobile security assessments. He is currently
leading Security Compass's training development in the mobile space. Max
has provided mobile security presentations and training at such
conferences as SecTor and ToorCon.

**Patrick Szeto**

Patrick Szeto is a Security Consultant with a strong background in
information security spanning over a decade. He is a specialist in
application security reviews, source code analysis, and secure coding
methodologies.Patrick has performed extensive application security
assessments for various Fortune 500 clients in the information
technology, financial services, data management, telecommunications,
national retail and health care sectors. Patrick has also developed
vulnerability signature detection tools and application security testing
tools and served as a trainer and advisor for an independent
vulnerability research team.

[Category:OWASP
Training/AppSec_DC_2012](Category:OWASP_Training/AppSec_DC_2012 "wikilink")