__NOTOC__

## Description

**Course Length: 1 Day**

Threat modeling is gaining traction as a fundamental application
security activity. In this class students learn about the attacks that
their applications may face and then both formal and informal approaches
to threat modeling. Using a fictional scenario, students perform all the
activities of a threat model on a complex application ? including
analyzing design documents and role-playing interviews. Students learn
about the industry standard formal threat modeling process as well as
Facilitated Application Threat Modeling: a 1-day approach to threat
modeling pioneered by Security Compass. Students will also be taught
about Security Compass?s unique source-code/design-pattern level threat
modeling.
\==Student Requirements== Laptop Required: Students Need to Bring:

## Objectives

Audience: Developers, architects, tech leads, information security
analysts who perform application penetration testing and/or source code
review Skill Level: Basic

Understand attacks that hackers use to break into web applications

Create threat models for complex multi-tiered applications

Prioritize risk of attacks for an application based on potential
threats

Apply security analysis to design and architecture of an application

## Instructor

Krishna Raja is a Senior Security Consultant with an extensive
background in Java EE application development. He has performed
comprehensive security assessments for financial, government, and health
care organizations across Canada and the United States. Mr. Raja has
also driven the initiation of application security programs into the
SDLC process of his clients. This involves the drafting of security
requirements, threat modeling, creating secure coding guidelines and
security test cases. Krishna has carried out the role of security
advisor, security analyst, project manager and trainer.

Krishna is instrumental in the development and delivery of Security
Compassâ€™ training curriculum. Krishna has developed and taught courses
in Threat Modeling, Exploiting and Defending Web Applications, Building
Secure Web Applications in Java EE, Advanced Application Attacks, and
Application Security Awareness to architects, project managers and
developers.

[Category:OWASP
Training/AppSec_DC_2012](Category:OWASP_Training/AppSec_DC_2012 "wikilink")