__NOTOC__

## Description

**Course Length: 2 Day**

Writing Secure code is the most effective method to securing your web
applications. Writing secure code takes skill and know-how but results
in a more stable and robust application and assists in protecting an
organisations brand. Application security is not commonly a part of many
computer science curricula today and most organizations have not focused
on instituting a culture that includes application security as a core
part of their software development training efforts.

This intensive 2-day course focuses on the most common web application
security problems, including aspects of both the OWASP Top Ten (2010)
and the MITRE Top 25. The course will introduce and demonstrate
application assessment techniques, illustrating how application
vulnerabilities can be exploited so students really understand how to
avoid introducing such vulnerabilities in their code. Sudents get
experience via doing, both in terms of exploitation but also the latest
defences against common and advanced attacks covering both traditional
and RIA applications.

## Student Requirements

Laptop Required Students Need to Bring: Laptop capable of running apache
tomcat, mysql etc Java jdk 1.6 installed. Network would be nice, but is
not necessary. Local lab environment supplied on disk/USB for all
students.

## Objectives

Audience: Technical, Developers Skill Level: Basic

1\) Understand and identify the wide assortment of key web application
risks. The theory and practice. Try the attack yourself and learn how to
code against it.
2\) Understand and be able to implement the coding techniques necessary
to write low-risk, secure, web applications. Discuss and examine why
solutions are recommended, what works and what doesn't.
3\) Lure developers into the Web Security Community in order to provide
them with multiple expert sources for continued questions and research.

## Instructor

Jim Manico OWASP cheat sheet lead and VP of security architecture with
Whitehat security.

Eoin Keary OWASP global board member, code review guide lead and
director with bccriskadvisory.com

[Category:OWASP
Training/AppSec_DC_2012](Category:OWASP_Training/AppSec_DC_2012 "wikilink")