__NOTOC__

## Description

**Course Length: 2 Day**

Identification of web application vulnerabilities is only half the
battle with remediation efforts as the other. Let's face the facts,
there are many real world business scenarios where it is not possible to
update web application code in either a timely manner or at all. This is
where the tactical use-case of implementing a web application firewall
to address identified issues proves its worth.

This workshop is intended to provide an overview of the recommended
practices for utilizing a web application firewall for virtual patching.
After discussing the framework to use, we will then present a very
interesting OWASP Summer of Code Project where the challenge was to
attempt to mitigate as many of the OWASP WebGoat vulnerabilities as
possible using the open source ModSecurity web application firewall.
During the workshop, we will discuss both WebGoat and ModSecurity and
provide in-depth walk-throughs of the complex fixes. Examples will
include addressing not only attacks but the underlying vulnerabilities,
using data persistence for multiple-step processes, content injection
and even examples of the new LUA programming language API. The goal of
this workshop is to both highlight cutting edge mitigation options using
a web application firewall and to show how it can effectively be used by
security consultants who traditionally could only offer source code
fixes.

See the recent OWASP Virtual Patching Survey for a selection of topic
areas we will discuss in depth:
<http://blog.spiderlabs.com/2012/03/owasp-virtual-patching-survey-results.html>

## Student Requirements

Laptop Required: Yes

Students Need to Bring:

  - OWASP LiveCD image pre-installed: <http://appseclive.org/node/45>

## Objectives

Audience: Technical, Operations Skill Level: Intermediate

1\) Understand Virtual Patching Concepts
2\) Evaluate if virtual patching is appropriate
3\) Practice constructing virtual patches for various types of
vulnerabilties

## Instructor

Ryan Barnett

[Category:OWASP
Training/AppSec_DC_2012](Category:OWASP_Training/AppSec_DC_2012 "wikilink")