#### Topic: Cyber Challenge Program

Our first speaker is Dr. Dan Manson, Professor at Cal Poly Pomona. Dr.
Manson organizes Cal Poly Pomona team for the US Cyber Challenge and he
will present about the Cyber Challenge program.

LA Times Article about Cyber Challenge: [click
here](http://www.latimes.com/news/local/la-me-cyber-camp-20110720,0,5088688.story)

#### Speaker: Dr. Dan Manson

Dr. Dan Manson is a Professor in the Computer Information Systems
Department, College of Business, at California State Polytechnic
University, Pomona. Dan led the effort for Cal Poly Pomona to be
designated a Center of Academic Excellence in Information Assurance
Education by NSA and DHS. Additionally, Dan has served as Information
Security Officer for Cal Poly Pomona, and is Director of the Cal Poly
Pomona Center for Information Assurance.

#### Topic: OWASP Exams Project

Our second presentation is a remote presentation by Jason Taylor of
Security Innovation, on the new OWASP Exams Project and the work being
done by the OWASP Academies Working Group. This group has already
created a set of exam questions that can be used by universities and
industry alike to test knowledge in web application security. The
project also has a set of rich content, which Jason will review in
detail with the group, including a new self-paced computer-based
training course on OWASP Top 10. Jason will also demonstrate TeamMentor
OWASP edition, a new open source tool that provides just-in-time secure
coding and security testing knowledge for teams that that leverage the
OWASP Top Ten for Web Application security initiatives.

The URL is <https://www.owasp.org/index.php/OWASP_Exams_Project>.

#### Speaker: Jason Taylor

\--

I have set-up a LiveMeeting session: Join the meeting. Audio Information
Toll-Free Access Number: 1.800.920.7487 Participant Code: 83876157\#
First Time Users: To save time before the meeting, check your system to
make sure it is ready to use Microsoft Office Live Meeting.

Troubleshooting Unable to join the meeting? Follow these steps: 1. Copy
this address and paste it into your web browser:
<https://www.livemeeting.com/cc/securityinnovation/join> 2. Copy and
paste the required information: Meeting ID: SBQNG8 Entry Code: z$RFq,$5N
Location: <https://www.livemeeting.com/cc/securityinnovation>

\--\>

#### Meeting Sponsor

![Image:Sprint_Horizontal_Full-color_on_white.jpg](Sprint_Horizontal_Full-color_on_white.jpg
"Image:Sprint_Horizontal_Full-color_on_white.jpg")

Sprint is a Fortune 100 company with over 40,000 employees. Sprint
generate over 32 Billion in 2010 and was the first to launch 4G network
in 2009. We currently serve more than 52 million business, government,
and individual customers.

Currently, Sprint’s main focus is Machine-to-Machine (M2M) which
represents the largest growth opportunity for wireless network
providers. It could help increase wireless penetration by up to 300
Percent. To meet this increasing demands, the Emerging Solutions group
was formed. The Emerging Solutions group has seen specifically high
numbers opportunity in the area of healthcare. Sprint also sees the
emergence of the tablet and the EMR Mandate as an opportunity\!
Companies will be forced to address mobile security concerns, especially
the access of electronic medical records outside of the security of
their existing firewalls.

Sprint’s Emerging Solutions’ group recently partner up with 3gLogix to
implement a project with a healthcare company to allow confidential
information to be viewed remotely at the patient site utilizing there
secure dual layer authentication product, DynaPass. This allowed the
clinical data to be entered locally and then instantly transferred back
to the clinic center for immediate healthcare billing. The project
product roll-out was a Samsung 7” tablet (2.2 Android OS) running off
Sprint CDMA 3G network securely, without any need of encryption or VPN
to slow down the process.

“Sprint has redefined M2M opportunities for business only 12 months
after launching Emerging Solutions Unit.” -CNBC.com