## **Topic: Evercookie**

## '''Speaker: Samy Kamkar

![Image:SamyKamkar.jpg](SamyKamkar.jpg "Image:SamyKamkar.jpg")

Samy Kamkar is best known for the Samy worm, the first XSS worm,
infecting over one million users on MySpace in less than 24 hours. A
co-founder of Fonality, Inc., an IP PBX company, Samy previously led the
development of all top-level domain name server software and systems for
Global Domains International (.ws), and worked for Penn State University
developing AI-based psychometric personality assessment software.

In the past 10 years, Samy has focused on evolutionary and genetic
algorithmic software development, Voice over IP software development,
automated security and vulnerability research in network security,
reverse engineering, and network gaming. When not strapped behind the
Matrix, Samy can be found stunt driving, getting involved in local
community service projects, and continuing his focus on staying out of
jail.



## **Abstract: Evercookie: the Persistent Cookie**

A javascript API available that produces extremely persistent cookies in
a browser. Its goal is to identify a client even after they've removed
standard cookies, Flash cookies Local Shared Objects or LSOs), and
others.

Evercookie accomplishes this by storing the cookie data in several types
of storage mechanisms that are available on the local browser.
Additionally, if evercookie has found the user has removed any of the
types of cookies in question, it recreates them using each mechanism
available.

**You can read more about Samy and Evercookie at
<http://samy.pl/evercookie/>**



## **Sponsor: IBM Rational Software**

IBMÂ Rational Software
<http://www-01.ibm.com/software/rational/>