## **Topic: Gray, the new Black: Gray-Box Web Vulnerability Testing**

### **Speaker: Brian Chess**

Brian Chess is a founder of Fortify Software, an HP company, andserves
as Fortify’s Chief Scientist, where his work focuses on practical
methods for creating secure systems. His book, Secure Programming with
Static Analysis, shows how static source code analysis is an
indispensable tool for getting security right.

Brian holds a Ph.D. in computer engineering from the University of
California at Santa Cruz, where he studied the application of static
analysis to the problem of finding security-relevant defects in source
code. Before settling on security, Brian spent a decade in Silicon
Valley working at huge companies and small startups. He has done
research on a broad set of topics, ranging from integrated circuit
design all the way to delivering software as a service.

### **Abstract: Gray, the new Black**

Penetration testers who use only black-box tools are destined to lose to
attackers who are willing to spend more time or effort looking for
vulnerabilities. Defenders need to make use of one of the few natural
advantages at their disposal: ready access to the system they’re trying
to protect.

In this talk Brian will discuss gray-box vulnerability testing
techniques that expose web application internals so that testers
understand what an application is doing and can spot vulnerabilities
faster. The tool observes the program while it executes. It reveals
attack surface, points out vulnerable program behavior, opens up a
code-level view of the application, and allows a tester to understand
information flow inside the program.

<b>[View the slide deck from this
presentation.](Media:Gray,_the_new_black.pptx‎ "wikilink")</b>

### **Sponsor: Safenet**

![SafenetLogo.jpg](SafenetLogo.jpg "SafenetLogo.jpg")