## **Topic: STUXNET**

## **Speaker: Liam O Murchu**

![Liam_OMurchu.png](Liam_OMurchu.png "Liam_OMurchu.png") 
Liam O Murchu is the manager of Security Response Operations for North
America with Symantec. In this role he leads the team of malware reverse
engineers and is constantly combating the latest malware attacks and
dealing with cutting edge threats of all sorts. Liam has analyzed the
majority of the high profile threats that have emerged in the last
number of years, both documenting their actions and working with both
private parties and law enforcement agencies to counter these threats.
His research has been presented before the US congress and the British
and EU Parliaments. As part of his research he has been credited with
discovering several zero day vulnerabilities. Most recently Liam has
been analyzing the Stuxnet worm which is speculated to have been
targeting Uranium enrichment plants in Iran.

**<span style="display: none" id="1298067122121S"> </span>**

## **Abstract: STUXNET**

Liam O Murchu is the manager of Security Response Operations for North
America with Symantec. In this role he leads the team of malware reverse
engineers and is constantly combating the latest malware attacks and
dealing with cutting edge threats of all sorts. Liam has analyzed the
majority of the high profile threats that have emerged in the last
number of years, both documenting their actions and working with both
private parties and law enforcement agencies to counter these threats.
His research has been presented before the US congress and the British
and EU Parliaments. As part of his research he has been credited with
discovering several zero day vulnerabilities. Most recently Liam has
been analyzing the Stuxnet worm which is speculated to have been
targeting Uranium enrichment plants in Iran.

 

## **Sponsors:**

![<http://www.go-evolve.com/>](Evolve_logo.jpg
"http://www.go-evolve.com/")

Evolve Technology Group:
Evolve Technology Group’s mission is to build robust networks to support
Data, Voice and Video. We provide professional consulting services to
integrate technology solutions that effectively mitigate a wide variety
of information security risks and performance issues faced by our
clients. In our constantly changing world, we provide relevance in the
industry with best of breed products and solutions coupled with superior
customer service to enable our clients to exceed their goals.



![<http://www.websense.com/content/home.aspx>](WebSenseLogo.jpg
"http://www.websense.com/content/home.aspx") 

Websense:
The Websense TRITONT security architecture provides the industry’s first
and only unified content security solution to deliver the best modern
security for inbound threats and outbound risks with the lowest total
cost of ownership. Websense secures the modern business as its
infrastructure dissolves and users, data, and applications move to the
Web.