## Conference Training Day - One Day Training Course - May 29th, 2006

OWASP has arranged to have two one day Web Application Security training
courses the day prior to the conference.

The first course will be provided by a long time contributor to OWASP,
Aspect Security. The second course will be provided by another active
OWASP member, the Arctec Group. These courses are being offered to
attendees of the OWASP conference at a large discount to their standard
commercial price. Most of the course fee will go to OWASP to support the
OWASP Foundation's efforts.

| T1 |  | align="center" | Foundations of Web Application Security - One Day Course - May 29th, 2006 |
| -- |  | -------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| T2 |  | align="center" | Web Services and XML Security - One Day Course - May 29th, 2006           |

<center>

\*Note: Information corresponding to each training course is located
below.

</center>

**Pricing**

Each course is 600 Euros for attendees of the OWASP conference.

**Location**

Training room at KU Leuven in College De Valk. T1 will be held in room
DV3 01.08 and T2 will be in room DV3 01.10.

**Registration**

[Click here](https://www.owasp.org/docroot/owasp/Registration/index.jsp)
to register for either course.

## T1. Foundations of Web Application Security - One Day Course - May 29th, 2006

**Course Overview**

Most developers, IT professionals, and auditors learn what they know
about application security on the job, usually by making mistakes.
Application security is just not a part of many computer science
curricula today and most organizations have not focused on instituting a
culture that includes application security as a core part of their IT
security efforts.

This powerful one day course focuses on the most common web application
security problems, including the OWASP Top Ten. The course will
introduce and demonstrate hacking techniques, illustrating how
application vulnerabilities can be exploited so students really
understand how to avoid introducing such vulnerabilities into their
code.

**Details**

This course starts with a module designed to raise awareness of just how
insecure most web applications are. We demonstrate how easily hackers
are able to attack web applications, and what some of the most common
and most significant vulnerabilities are. The course then provides an
overview of how web applications work from a security perspective.

The next modules detail a number of specific security areas. We describe
common vulnerabilities, present best practices, and discuss recommended
approaches for avoiding such vulnerabilities. This course includes
coverage of the following common vulnerability areas:

  - Unvalidated Parameters \*
  - Broken Access Control \*
  - Broken Account and Session Management \*
  - Cross-Site Scripting (XSS) Flaws \*
  - Buffer Overflows \*
  - Command Injection Flaws \*
  - Error Handling Problems \*
  - Insecure Use of Cryptography \*
  - Denial of Service \*
  - Web and Application Server Misconfiguration \*
  - Poor Logging Practices
  - Caching, Pooling, and Reuse Errors
  - Code Quality

\* The OWASP Top Ten Most Critical Web Application Vulnerabilities

Additional details on these are available at Aspect's Common Web
Application Vulnerability Areas page.

For each area, the course covers the following:

  - Theoretical foundations
  - Recommended security policies
  - Common pitfalls when implementing
  - Details on historical exploits
  - Best practices for implementation

Class begins at 8 AM and runs until 5 PM.

**Hands on Exercises**

To cement the principles delivered via the lecture portion of the
course, students can participate in a number of hands-on security
testing exercises. During the hands-on exercises students will attack a
live web application (i.e., WebGoat) that has been seeded with common
web application vulnerabilities. The students will use proxy tools
commonly used by the hacker community to complete the exercises.

Note: OWASP will not be able to supply laptops for students to use for
these exercises. If you are interested in participating in the hands on
portion of the course, please bring a Windows based laptop that supports
Java.

**Registration**

[Click here to
register.](http://www.owasp.org/docroot/owasp/Registration)

**Tutorial Provider**

This tutorial is provided by longtime OWASP contributor:
[<https://www.owasp.org/images/c/c1/Aspect_logo_owasp.jpg>](http://www.aspectsecurity.com)

## T2. Web Services and XML Security - One Day Course - May 29th, 2006

**Course Overview:**

The movement towards Web Services and Service Oriented architecture
(SOA) paradigms requires new security paradigms to deal with new risks
posed by these architectures. This session takes a pragmatic approach
towards identifying Web Services security risks and selecting and
applying countermeasures to the application, code, web servers,
databases, application, and identity servers and related software.

Many enterprises are currently developing new Web Services and/or adding
and acquiring Web Services functionality into existing applications --
now is the time to build security into the system\!

**Details:**

Topics covered include understanding how web application risks (such as
those in OWASP Guide and OWASP Top Ten) apply in a Web Services world,
and Web Services security topics including:

  - Web Services attack patterns
  - Common XML attack patterns
  - Data and XML security using WS-Security, SAML, XML Encryption and
    XML Digital Signature
  - Identity services and federation with SAML and Liberty
  - Hardening Web Services servers
  - Input validation for Web Services
  - Integrating Web Services securely with backend resources and
    applications using WS-Trust
  - Secure Exception handling in Web Services

**Registration**

[Click here to
register.](http://www.owasp.org/docroot/owasp/Registration)

''' Tutorial Provider '''

This tutorial is provided by
[<http://www.owasp.org/images/b/bc/Arctec_logo.jpeg>](http://www.arctecgroup.net)