## Topic: The Software Assurance Maturity Model (SAMM)

## Speaker: Pravir Chandra

Pravir Chandra is Director of Strategic Services at Fortify Software and
works with clients on software security assurance programs.Pravir is
recognized for his expertise in software security, codeanalysis, and his
ability to strategically apply technical knowledge. Prior to Fortify, he
was a Principal Consultant affiliated with Cigital and led large
software security programs at Fortune 500 companies. Pravir Co-Founded
Secure Software, Inc. and was Chief Security Architect prior to its
acquisition by Fortify. He recently created and led the Open Software
Assurance Maturity Model (OpenSAMM) project with the OWASP Foundation,
leads the OWASP CLASP project, and also serves as member of the OWASP
Global Projects Committee. Pravir is author of the book Network Security
with OpenSSL.

## Abstract:The Software Assurance Maturity Model (SAMM)

The Software Assurance Maturity Model (SAMM) (http://www.opensamm.org)
is a flexible and prescriptive framework for building security into a
software development organization. Covering more than typical SDLC-based
models for security, SAMM enables organizations to self-assess their
security assurance program and then use recommended roadmaps to improve
in a way that's aligned to the specific risks facing the organization.
Beyond that, SAMM enables creation of scorecards for an organization's
effectiveness at secure software development throughout the typical
governance, development, and deployment business functions. Scorecards
also enable management within an organization to demonstrate
quantitative improvements through iterations of building a security
assurance program. This workshop will introduce the SAMM framework and
walk through useful activities such as assessing an assurance program,
mapping an existing organization to a recommended roadmap, and
iteratively building an assurance program. Time allowing, additional
case studies will also be discussed. SAMM is an open and free project
and has recently been added under the Open Web Application Security
Project (OWASP) Foundation.