## Topic: Cloud Computing and Security

## Speaker: Alex Stamos

Alex Stamos is a co-founder and Partner at iSEC Partners Inc., a
strategic digital security organization. Alex is an experienced security
engineer specializing in solving difficult problems in application
security and is a leading researcher in the field of web application and
mobile security. He has been a featured speaker at top industry
conferences such as Black Hat, Web 2.0 Expo, CanSecWest, DefCon, SyScan,
SD Best Practices, Microsoft BlueHat and OWASP App Sec. Alex is a
contributing author to "Hacking Exposed: Web 2.0" and an author of the
upcoming book "Mobile Application Security", both from McGraw-Hill. He
holds a BSEE from the University of California, Berkeley.

## Abstract: Cloud Computing and Security

[Cloud Computing and
Security](https://www.owasp.org/images/5/58/Cloud_Computing_Security.pdf)
The Cloud Computing and Software as a Service models are driving many
companies to build innovative, scalable and cost effective alternatives
to the traditional IT computing model. Even with the potential cost and
scalability benefits of cloud computing, its use by more traditional
enterprises has been retarded by the concerns of their professional
security and audit staffs. In our experience these concerns are
legitimate, and although surveys have shown that security is the \#1
factor preventing adoption of cloud computing, there has been very
little reliable discussion of the technical security risks inherent in
the model and how engineers, sys-admins and architects can deal with
these risks.

In this session, we will explore the widely differing security models of
the leading cloud computing providers, including Amazon, Google and
Salesforce. We will also reveal the significant differences in
operational and application security practices necessary to deal with a
cloud computing environment.