## Topic: Information Warfare: Past, Present and Future

## Speaker: Mikhael Felker

Mikhael Felker, CISSP-ISSEP has worked in a variety of roles including
instructor, engineer, and researcher. He is currently employed by The
Aerospace Corporation in the Information Assurance Technology
Department, supporting Information Assurance (IA) for satellite systems.
He is also an Instructor within the Computer & Information Systems
Division at UCLA Extension, teaching a course in networking. Actively
involved in the Los Angeles security community, he is the Education
Director for Los Angeles Chapter of Information Systems Security
Association (ISSA), member and speaker of Information Systems Audit and
Control Association (ISACA), and former Defense Sector Coordinator for
InfraGard. Mikhael has published articles in IEEE Security & Privacy,
the ISSA Journal, Information Systems Control Journal, and
SecurityFocus. He is a recipient of the Scholarship for Service Program
(SFS) Fellowship, sponsored by the National Science Foundation and
Department of Homeland Security (DHS). Mikhael completed his graduate
work at Carnegie Mellon University with a Master's in Information
Security Policy & Management and Bachelor's at UCLA in Computer Science.
He holds over 10 certifications in IT and Security.


## Abstract: Information Warfare: Past, Present and Future

Information warfare is the composite use of psychological operations
(PYOPS), military deception (MILDEC), operational security (OPSEC),
computer network operations (CNO), and electronic warfare (EW) to
control and disrupt information flow. Recently, interest in information
war technologies, techniques and policy issues have increased,
especially in the domain of CNO. Increased scrutiny over network
operations is both legitimate and valid, as global commerce and military
powers are integrated and dependent on the Internet for critical
operations. This presentation will describe the five domains of
information warfare, the past use of information warfare in the Gulf war
and recent Cyber attacks on the Eastern European countries of Georgia
and Estonia. Information will be presented on possible new directions of
information warfare.