## Topic: Enabling Compliance Requirements using Information Security Management System (ISMS) Framework

  - [Enabling Compliance Requirements using Information Security
    Management System (ISMS) Framework
    (ISO27001)](http://www.owasp.org/images/c/ca/ISO27001_OWASPLA_Shankar_10212009.pdf)

## Speaker: Shankar Subramaniyan

Shankar Subramaniyan has over 11 years of experience as a technology
consulting and project management executive in the areas of IT
Governance, Risk and Compliance (GRC), Business Continuity Planning and
Network Design & Architecture. He has thorough expertise on setting up
Information Security Framework and Policies on the basis of industry
standards such as ISO 27001. He has worked extensively on industry
standards and best practices like BS7799 and ITIL. He also has good
understanding and knowledge of various compliance requirements like PCI,
Sox etc. Shankar' s experience includes IT audit, SOX remediation, ISMS
(ISO27001) implementation, PCI compliance assessment, disaster recovery
solution, enterprise risk management, designing IT security architecture
and implementing ITIL processes. Shankar has rich experience in handling
large projects and managing client relationships across corporate and
educational sectors.


## Abstract: Enabling Compliance Requirements using Information Security Management System (ISMS) Framework

Growing threats and complex regulatory requirements emphasize the need
for an effective Information Security Management System (ISMS) framework
for an organization. Comprehensive and globally accepted standards like
ISO27001 can help in protecting information assets and in enabling
compliance requirements. ISO27001 provides an Information Security
framework based on best practices and controls to ensure the
confidentiality, integrity and availability of information assets. This
presentation analyzes the possible synergies between the goals of
Information Security Management System (ISMS) and the various compliance
requirements, thus making the compliance efforts less complex.
Following are the key objectives of this presentation :

  - Provide an introduction to ISO27001 and its controls
  - Discuss the implementation approach for an Information Security
    Management System (ISMS) framework
  - Familiarize the audience with some common challenges in
    implementation
  - Outline synergy between ISO27001 controls and some compliance
    requirements( PCI , etc)


Attendees will learn about ISO27001 Information Security Standard, ISMS
implementation approach and how ISO27001 can be used in meeting various
regulatory/compliance requirements like Sox, PCI etc. It will also help
the attendees to improve the information security posture of the
organization and provide an effective and efficient approach for
handling various information security/compliance audits with less
effort.