## Topic: The Rise of Threat Analysis and the Fall of Compliance, Policies, and Standards in Mitigating Web Application Security Risks

## Speaker: Marco Morana

Marco Morana serves as one of the leaders of OWASP (Open Web Application
Security Project) organization where he is actively involved in
evangelize on web application security through presentations at local
chapter meetings in USA as well as internationally. Marco has recently
been awarded a contract from Wiley Publishing to co-author a book on
Application Threat Modeling.

Besides being the OWASP Cincinnati chapter lead, Marco is also active
contributor to OWASP projects such as the application threat modeling
methodology for secure coding guideline and the security testing guide
(ver. 2 and 3). Besides contributing to OWASP, Marco works as Technology
Information Security Officer for a large financial organization in North
America with responsibilities in the definition of the organization web
application security standards, management of application security
assessments during the SDLC, threat-fraud analysis and training of
software developers, project managers and architects on different topics
related to application security.

In the past, Marco served as senior security consultant and independent
consultant where his responsibilities included providing software
security services for several clients in the financial and banking,
telecommunications and commercial sector industry. Besides security
consulting, Marco had a career as technologist in the security industry
where he contributed to the design business critical security products
currently being used by several FORTUNE 500 companies as well by the US
Government.

Marco work on software security is referred in the 2007 State Of the Art
report by the Information Assurance Technology Analysis Center (IATAC).
Marco received the NASA’s Space Act Award in 1999 for the patenting the
S/MIME SEP (Secure Email Plug-in) application.

Marco research work on application and software security is widely
published on several magazines such as In-secure magazine, Secure
Enterprise, ISSA Journal and the C/C++ Users journal. Marco’s ideas and
strategies for writing secure software are posted on his blog:
<http://securesoftware.blogspot.com>.


## Speaker: Tony UcedaVelez

Tony UcedaVelez has more than 10 years of hands-on security and
technology experience and is a vocal advocate of security process
engineering – a terminology that describes the design and development of
secure processes and controls working symbiotically to a unique business
workflow. Tony currenlty serves as Managing Director for an Atlanta
based risk advisory firm that focuses on security strategy and
delivering effective means for risk mitigation and security process
engineering. He has worked and consulted for the Fortune 500, as well as
federal agencies in the U.S on the topic of application security and
security process engineering. His diverse background in software
development, security architecture, and network security, coupled with
his expertise in process engineering and security risk management has
allowed Tony to be a recognized leader in developing strategic security
solutions that are multi-faceted in their approach to addressing
enterprise risk.

In the realm of application security, Tony is a threat modeling
evangelist and has provided numerous talks domestically and globally on
its many benefits and application. He has served as a guest mentor to
teams participating in Kennesaw State University’s annual Cybercrime
capture the flag event as well as a Cybercrime speaker for Southern
Polytechnic University in Atlanta. He has also served as a guest speaker
on the subject of application threat modeling during ISACA’s annual Geek
Week event and has also served as a keynote speaker on the subject for
ISACA’s Global Symposium web cast series. Additional articles include
articles related to CoBIT and the ValIT model (ISACA’s Journal),
application threat modeling within the SDLC (InSecureMagazine), and
security process engineering for a ROSI (return on security investment)
(Journal of Finance). He is currently finalizing a Wiley publishing book
on Application Threat Modeling with Marco Morana.

Prior to VerSprite, Tony served as Sr. Director of Security Risk
Management to a Fortune 50 organization where he led security
assessments against global application environments. His work
encompassed web application security testing, security architecture
reviews, and analysis for business logic exploits. He applied effective
ways to introduce the subject of application risk to information owners
by effectively mapping them to causal factors for business. Previous to
this role, he spent more than 5 years in the field of application
security across other Fortune 500 organizations within the banking,
telecom, and information service industry segments.

Tony currently leads the OWASP Atlanta Chapter, where he manages monthly
workshops and events for the Atlanta web application security community.
He also has developed a case study program for the Atlanta chapter in
order to develop case studies with local Atlanta companies who are
seeking to apply application threat modeling techniques within the SDLC
and/ or incorporate the many OWASP produced tools and frameworks. Tony
can be reached at tonyuv@versprite.com or tonyuv@owasp.org.


## Abstract: The Rise of Threat Analysis and the Fall of Compliance, Policies, and Standards in mitigating Web Application Security Risks

On August 5th of 2009, Federal prosecutors on Monday charged Albert
Gonzales with the largest case of credit and debit card data theft ever
in the United States: 130 million credit cards numbers by hacking into
the systems of Heartland Payment Systems, the New Jersey-based card
processing company, as well as Hannaford Brothers, 7-Eleven and two
unnamed national retailers. Using a SQL-injection attack, the hackers
installed malware on Hannaford Brothers. Hannaford was PCI compliant at
the time they were compromise that lets question the validity of
regulatory compliance frameworks, and specifically PCI standards as an
effective method to reduce data breaches, identity theft, and the
proliferation of credit card fraud. This presentation will further
analyze how status quo security standards, such as PCI-DSS, as well as
other policies, standards, and guidelines truly affect security risk
mitigation efforts against cybercrime based threats. These traditional
efforts will be compared to threat modeling workflows in order to
demonstrate how real risk is mitigated under each scenario.

Cases for financial fraud will be anonymously presented to create a
business case for application threat modeling as a viable methodology to
drive improved application design and security risk mitigation. Threat
modeling concepts will be elaborated in order to prove how application
architecture walkthroughs via threat modeling improve the mitigation of
cybercrime threats. Attacker motives and goals will be presented and
incorporated into attack trees and it will show how attack libraries can
be used to effectively identify application vulnerabilities and devise
countermeasures in web application.

From the risk analysis perspective, several attacks will be considered
and highlighted, particularly attacks that represent a systemic impact
to an organization or government (such as for example a distributed
denial of service).

Through the presentation of threat modeling scenarios, analyses and
correlations will be drawn from the represented model(s) to attack
patterns, associated and discovered security vulnerabilities, data
sources, application topologies, and possible roles and permissions
associated with the application environment. The purpose of the
presentation is to demonstrate how application threat modeling can be
used as part of a nouveau age form of security risk mitigation and
overall application security. Data flow diagrams and application
walkthroughs will enable audience members to witness how application
threat modeling is an evolved form of security process engineering for
improved application design and overall application security. The
presentation will also demonstrate how threat modeling is capable of
delivering critical business functions as well as in mitigating current
and future cyber attacks, such as distributed denial of service, botnet
driven-malware, spear phishing techniques, and more attacks that
ultimately lead to identity and credit card fraud.

From the point of view of current and future cybercrime risk mitigation,
several different strategies for application threat modeling will be
discussed as related to securing both the web application web and
critical financial infrastructures, such as ATMs. Finally some emphasis
will be given to countermeasures that provide for incident response,
intelligence and forensics capabilities.

Presentation outline, defining all topics that will be covered:

  - Status quo of regulatory compliance in mitigating risk
  - Threat modeling techniques for cybercrime threats
  - Attack tree analysis for attack tree vectors
  - Threat modeling for multi-channel fraud threat scenarios
  - Cyber crime threats and application countermeasures via threat
    modeling
  - Example of mitigation strategies for cybercrime and application of
    defense in depth for web applications



Any supporting research/tools:

  - Threat models and attack trees
  - Threat model are produced using the Microsoft™ threat modeling tool
  - Public available cybercrime data will be presented and correlated